Regulations for the Dual Degree Program in Computer Science and
Engineering (CSE) and Electronics & Communications Engineering (ECE)
1.

Preamble
Dual degree programs are common in India and most IITs have it. The main motive
behind such a program is to have some of the UG students of an Institute do their
M.Tech. in the same Institute, so the Institute can leverage the training it had provided
and the seamless transition into the M.Tech. program to benefit its research activity, as
well as reduce the duration for earning the M.Tech. degree. Most dual degree programs
allow for both degrees to be earned in five years. IIIT-D’s dual degree program follows a
similar approach as many other Institutions.

2.

Admission and Requirements

2.1

Application process for dual degree may be initiated in advance and completed well
before the placement starts.

2.2

Application Timeline: Application for Dual Degree may be invited immediately after
declaration of the result of 6th Semester. Scrutiny, selection of students, approval by
Chair PGC and declaration of result to be completed by middle of June.

2.3

Eligibility: Only students with CGPA of 7.0 or above at the time of applying are eligible
for the program. A student once selected for Dual Degree cannot avail placement
services that year. Furthermore, a student selected for Dual degree may opt out from
migration before the add/drop date of his/her 7th semester in the B.Tech. program. The
refund of fee paid towards dual degree will be regulated as per Note 3.6 of this
Regulation.

2.4

Any extra course credits earned during the B.Tech. program beyond what is required for
the B.Tech. degree, up to a maximum of 12 credits, may be counted towards course
credit requirements for the M.Tech. degree. So, a student can do extra courses in 3rd and
4th year (as Honors students do), and get these credits counted towards satisfying the
M.Tech. course credit requirements, provided the courses are such that they can be
counted for M.Tech..

2.5

Students, who have undergone the B.Tech.(CSE), B.Tech.(CS+X) or B.Tech.(ECE)
program of IIIT-D, have the necessary background and strength in foundations for
M.Tech.(CSE) and M.Tech(ECE) program, respectively. Hence, only upto 12 credits of
core course requirement of the M.Tech. program, which is designed to impart some core
knowledge to students, is deemed to have been satisfied, and the same is waived-off for
the dual degree students for earning their M.Tech.
1

2.6

Mandatory requirement to complete OOPD course can be waived for Dual Degree
students as long as AP is taken by the student during B.Tech.

2.7

Mandatory requirement to complete RM course can be waived for Dual Degree students
as long as RMSSD is taken by the student during B.Tech.

2.8

A dual degree student will be considered as a B.Tech. student till the time he/she
completes the requirements for the same; thereafter he/she will be considered as an
M.Tech. student. The date for each degree will be based on the date of completing the
requirements for that degree.

2.9

The dual degree student must spend at least two semesters as an M.Tech. student.

2.10

A dual degree student must do an M.Tech. thesis, which may be a continuation of the
work done in BTP.

2.11

If the specialization requirements are met, then the dual degree student can apply for
specialization as well. Also, student should not repeat a course already done in B.Tech.
Only new courses need to be done to complete the dual degree requirement.

3.

Notes:

3.1

The fee for the M.Tech. portion of the dual degree program will be half of regular
M.Tech. fee.

3.2

The dual degree student will not be eligible for campus placement in his/her B.Tech.
portion, and will be eligible only in his/her last year to use placement services.

3.3

If a student does 12 credits extra in 3rd/4th years, as allowed, he/she will have to do 8
credits more in the 5th year, and at least 16 credits of M.Tech. thesis, for the M.Tech.
degree. The minimum number of credits for M.Tech. part under Dual Degree program is
36.

3.4

After declaration of 8th semester results the student should specify which courses should
count for B.Tech. and which for the M.Tech. degree.

3.5

Students should be encouraged to take GATE in their 4th year to benefit from the scheme.

3.6

It is clarified that after admission to Dual Degree program the student is ineligible for
placement. No refund of fee will be made if he / she does not join except if he/she goes
for higher studies in which case some amount is deducted (the amount to be deducted
will be decided by the Competent Authority).

3.7

On completion of B.Tech. requirements, the B.Tech. degree may be given on submission
of No Dues Certificate.

2

3.8

If he/she cannot complete the M.Tech. part of the Dual Degree program no fee refund
can be made.

3.9

Internship rules for dual degree students will be same as for M.Tech. students of the
respective batches.

Change History:
July, 2014: It is clarified that:
(i) the dual degree program is for both CSE and ECE
(ii) a student can opt for B.Tech. (Honors) – i.e. clause that Honors cannot be done is
removed.
(iii) If the specialization requirements are met, then the dual degree student can apply
for specialization as well.
July 2015:
Points related to refund of fee and issue of B.Tech. degree on completion of degree requirements
clarified vide paras 3.6,3.7 and 3.8.
July 2016:
Minor changes
April 2020:
(i) Pnt 2.3 – Eligibility criteria reworded
(ii) Pnt 2.6
January 2021:
(i) Pnt 2.5 – B.Tech. (CS+X) added
(ii) Pnt 2.7
(iii) Pnt 2.11 updated
(iv) Pnt 3.9

3

