Regulations for M.Tech. in Computer Science and Engineering with
Specialization in Artificial Intelligence
1. Preamble
IIIT-Delhi subscribes to the view that a Master’s degree is primarily industry-focused, though
it can be used as a stepping stone for research as well. The decision whether the degree is to
be pursued for skill and knowledge up-gradation or also for building research skills should
rest with the student.
2. Program Educational Objectives
The main PEOs of the program are to produce graduates that are well prepared:
 PEO 1: to undertake industry careers involving innovation and problem solving using
Artificial Intelligence (AI) and Machine Learning (ML) technologies.
 PEO 2: to undertake research careers in AI, ML, and, in general, Computer Sciences
areas
 PEO3: to contribute to society by becoming a model professional who can
communicate effectively and follows ethical behavior
3. Program Outcomes: The main outcomes of the M.Tech. in CSE with specialization in
AI program are given here. At the end of the program a student is expected to have an
ability to:
 PO 1: recognize and analyze problems related to AI and ML applications along with
their ethical implications
 PO 2: apply pattern recognition, machine learning, and artificial intelligent techniques
including statistical data analysis and quantitative modeling techniques to solve real
world problems from various domains such as healthcare, social computing,
economics, etc.
 PO 3: utilize cutting edge tools and software in AI and ML
 PO 4: build novel algorithms or modify/improve existing approaches in AI and ML
 PO 5: demonstrate knowledge by communicate findings and effectively present
results
 PO 6: understand latest development and progress in AI and ML areas
4. General Requirements
1.

Entry qualification for this specialization will be the same as for M.Tech. CSE.

1

2.

3.

4.

5.
6.

M.Tech. in CSE with specialization in Artificial Intelligence (AI) will have four
types of courses:
(i)
Core AI courses,
(ii)
Core AI electives,
(iii) Regular AI electives, and
(iv)
Open electives.
M.Tech. may be done with a thesis, or without a thesis (Capstone Project option).
In both the options, a student must complete 12 credits of core AI courses, at least
8 credits from core AI electives, and at least 4 credits from regular AI elective, and
may choose the remaining from open electives as discussed below.
A student not fulfilling the specialization requirement can be considered for
M.Tech. CSE (GEN) degree provided she/he fulfills other requirements. For such
students, courses taken as core courses for M.Tech. CSE (AI) can be counted as
bucket courses for M.Tech. CSE (GEN).
The overall credit requirement for the M.Tech. is 48 credits. Requirements for
thesis and Capstone Project options are as follows:
a. With Thesis option: 32 credits of coursework + 16 credits of thesis. At most 4
credits may be earned by doing 300 and 400 level courses.
b.
Without thesis option: 40 credits of coursework + Capstone Project (8
credits). At most 8 credits may be earned by doing 300 and 400 level courses.
A student opting for without thesis option can also be permitted to do
Capstone project of 4 credits with 44 credits course work.
This program does not allow Industrial Project, Scholarly Paper or coursework
option.
A student admitted to the M.Tech. program will give his/her choice regarding
whether he/she wants to pursue the thesis or without thesis (Capstone) option.
However, this choice can be changed at any time during the program by suitably
informing the PG Committee. Credits earned for Capstone Project or Thesis may
be counted towards thesis or Capstone Project respectively, if approved by the
PGC.

Core AI Courses – A student is required to complete 12 credits of core AI courses:
 Artificial Intelligence
 Introduction to Graduate Algorithms or Modern Algorithm Design (MAD) or Theoretical
Machine Learning (TML) (one of these)
 Statistical Machine Learning or Machine Learning (either one of these)
Core AI Electives – A student is required to complete minimum 8 credits (12 credits for Capstone
Project option) from below:






Advanced Machine Learning
Deep Learning
Machine Learning
Multi-Agent Systems
Probabilistic Graphical Models
2





Reinforcement Learning
Statistical Machine Learning
Theoretical Machine Learning

Regular AI Elective - A student is required to complete at least 4 credits (8 credits for Capstone
Project option). Refer IIITD website for list of courses counted under this bucket.

Open Electives:
 A student can take up to 8 credits of open electives
 All of the above and any CS course
 In electives, at most 8 credits of “Independent Study” and “Minor Project(Independent
Project)” combined can be taken. Online course may be permitted to be registered as
Independent study with permission of PGC.
Change History
 First version- July 2018
 January 2021
(i) Slight modification in rule regarding max credits of M.Tech. project/Independent study that
are allowed.

3

