Regulations for M.Tech. (Computer Science and Engineering (CSE))

1. Preamble
IIIT-Delhi subscribes to the view that a Masters degree is primarily industry-focused, though it can be
used as a stepping stone for research as well. The decision whether the degree is to be pursued for skill
and knowledge up-gradation or also for building research skills should rest with a student.

2. Program Educational Objectives
PEO 1: to undertake industry careers involving innovation and problem solving using
software and other information technologies.
PEO 2: to undertake research careers in Computer Sciences and allied areas
PEO3: to contribute to society by becoming a model professional who can communicate
effectively and observes ethical behavior
The Institute also feels that to address the needs of the industry, which today requires more specialized
manpower as each field is getting more complex, it is desirable to provide specializations within
Computer Science in the M.Tech. program. For this, the Institute permits a student to do an “M.Tech.
in Computer Science and Engineering” or “M.Tech. in Computer Science and Engineering with
specialization in <area>”.

3. General Requirements
(For Graduation requirements for M.Tech.(CSE) with specialization in Artificial Intelligence,
refer M.Tech.(CSE)-AI regulations)
1. M.Tech. (CSE) may be done with a thesis, or with a scholarly paper or without thesis and scholarly
paper. In with thesis and scholarly paper options, students have to do certain amount of course
work. In addition, students doing M.Tech. with thesis will have to do a thesis. Students with
scholarly paper option will have to do scholarly paper instead of a thesis and will have to do
additional courses. Students without thesis and scholarly paper option, will have to do only the
course work.
2. The overall credits requirement for the M.Tech. is 48 credits. In addition to 48 credits a student has
to complete Summer refresher of 4 credits, Object Oriented Programming and Design (2 credits)

1

and Research Methods (2 credits). Requirements of 48 credits for all the three options are as
follows;
a. M.Tech. with thesis; 32 credits of course work + 16 credits of thesis. At most 4 credits
may be earned by doing 300 and 400 level courses.
b. M.Tech. with Scholarly Paper; 40 or 44 credits of course work + 8 or 4 credits for a
scholarly paper. At most 8 credits may be earned by doing 300 and 400 level courses.
c. M.Tech. without thesis and scholarly paper option; 48 credits of course work. At most
8 credits may be earned by doing 300 and 400 level courses.
3. A student admitted to the M.Tech. program will give his/her choice regarding whether he/she wants
to pursue the thesis or scholarly paper or without thesis/scholarly paper option. However, this
choice can be changed at any time during the program by suitably informing the Academic Affairs
Committee. Credits earned for scholarly paper or thesis may be counted towards thesis or scholarly
paper respectively, if approved by the AAC.
4. Within the course work requirement, each M.Tech.(CSE) student has to earn 12 credits of core
courses by doing one course from each of the bucket of core courses:
Theory bucket

Modern
Algorithm
(CSE519).

Systems bucket

Design Computer Architecture (CSE511)

Randomized Algorithms (CSE523)
Graduate Algorithms (CSE525)

Mobile Computing (CSE535)
Wireless Networks (CSE638 )

Software bucket
Program Analysis (CSE503)
Information Retrieval (CSE508)
Compiler (CSE601)

Note: For M.Tech.(CSE) with Artificial Intelligence, list of courses is defined in specific regulation
of Artificial Intelligence
5. All other courses are electives. In electives, at most 8 credits of “Independent Study” and “Minor
Project (Independent Project)” combined can be taken. Online course is permitted to be registered
as Independent study.

4. Requirements for Specialization other than Artificial
Intelligence(AI).
1. For “M.Tech. in Computer Science and Engineering with specialization in <area other than
Artificial Intelligence>”, whereas an area refers to the areas in which specializations are offered by
the Institute, the student must:
a. Complete at least 16 credits of courses in the chosen area.
b. Do thesis/scholarly paper in that area. The advisor will certify this fact. A student doing
M.Tech. without Thesis/Scholarly paper will not be allowed to do M.Tech. with
specialization.
Note; Details about Artificial Intelligence specialization are given in specific regulation of M.Tech.
(CSE) with specialization in Artificial Intelligence.

2

2. If a course is in the list of courses for a specialization, as well as in one of the buckets for core
courses, that course can be used for satisfying both the core and specialization requirements.
However, the overall course requirements remain unchanged.
3. The lists of courses for each specialization are specified on the specialization page on IIITD
website.

4. For a specialization, the student’s enrollment must be approved.
5. A student enrolled in a specialization can move to M.Tech.(CSE) at any point by informing
suitably. A student can move from M.Tech.(CSE) to a specialization only if permitted by the
Academic Affairs Committee.
6. If a student enrolled in a specialization completes all requirements for the M.Tech., but not the
requirements for specialization, he/she will be eligible for “M.Tech. in Computer Science and
Engineering”.

5.

Assistantship and Fee Waiver
1. Limited number of Assistantships will be available for M.Tech. students. As specified in the
Regulations for M.Tech./PhD Programs, a student who is offered an Assistantship will be required
to do 10-15 hours of academic work per week in-lieu of the Assistantship.
2. Limited number of partial or full fee-waivers may be provided.

Change History:
Version 2.0 (Jan 2012). Changes made: Clarified that “sufficient core courses should be offered so a
student can complete the core requirement in first two semesters”, and some courses added to the three sets;
The following regulation deleted: “Assistantship is available only for with-thesis option. A student on
Assistantship will have a residency requirement of 4 semesters.” Added that “Limited number of partial or
full fee-waivers may be provided” (since fee waiver is now delinked from assistantship in the PG
regulations).
July 2013
(i) Minor change in the Preamble.
July 2014:
(i) Movement between specialization and without specialization clarified (ii) The scholarly paper credits
changed from 8 to “4 or 8 (iii)Option for doing M.Tech. with Thesis/ SP/ Industry
Internship/Capstone project added.
July 2015:
Following changes have been made in the main PG regulation:

3

i)
ii)

Replacement upto 2 courses permitted anytime
Fresh M.Tech. student’s thesis guidance by Adjunct faculty allowed only with a cosupervisor

July 2016:
(i)

Core courses in the three buckets revised as shown in the table.
(ii) Some minor changes shown in the main PG regulations
July 2017:
(i)

Program Educational Objectives added

July 2020:
(i)

Without Thesis option added

January 2021:
(i)
(ii)
(iii)
(iv)

Added 3xx/4xx level courses allowed for those doing M.Tech with course work
Slight modification in rule regarding max credits of M.Tech. project/Independent study that are
allowed.
Specialization rule for M.Tech. with course work option
PG Committee changed to Academic Affairs committee.

4

