REGULATIONS FOR THE M.TECH. / PH.D. PROGRAMS
For Ordinances details please visit at the following link:
https://www.iiitd.ac.in/sites/default/files/docs/education/PG-Ordinances.pdf

1

REGULATIONS FOR THE M.TECH. / PH.D. PROGRAMS

1. General
(1) This document gives the general regulations applicable to all M.Tech. and Ph.D.
programs. Specific requirements for a particular M.Tech. program (e.g. M.Tech. in
Computer Science and Engineering) are specified in regulations for that program. For
Ph.D., special requirements for different disciplines (e.g. CSE, ECE, CB, Mathematics, HCD
and SSH) are also given in this document – these special requirements have to be satisfied by
Ph.D. students in that discipline.
(2) While the Senate is the main statutory body for all academic matters, the Academic
Affairs Committee (AAC), a standing committee of Senate, shall oversee matters related
to the postgraduate and undergraduate programs. The committee will comprise of DOAA,
AAC Chair, Chair PG Affairs, Chair UG Affairs, 8-10 faculty members having
representation from all the departments. The committee may coopt, with the permission of
Chairman, Senate, other Faculty members, Student representatives who will be full time
students of the Institute, Research staff, and members of the Senate in AAC.

(3) Any condition arising in the PG program and not covered in this manual shall be referred
to the AAC committee, which may refer it to the academic senate.
(4) Dean of Academic Affairs (DOAA) is the main functionary who ensures the smooth
functioning of the academic programs as approved by the academic senate, executes the
policies and decisions of the Senate and AAC, and maintains all records and files.

2. Academic Session and Calendar
(1) There are two regular semesters and one summer term in a year. Most courses are taught
in the regular semesters. The semester timeline shall be defined in the academic calendar
and will be broadly the following.
a. Semester I (Monsoon Semester). Starts around in the third week of August and ends
around third week of December.
b. Semester II (Winter Semester). Starts around the third week of January and ends
around the third week of May.
c. Summer Term: Starts around the first week of June and ends around first week of
August.

3. Categories of Students
(1) Sponsored and regular students

2

a. Sponsored – This category comprises of students who are working professionals and
are sponsored by their respective organizations by giving an undertaking (NOC).
They will not be entitled to any financial assistance from the Institute, fee waiver, and
on-campus placement.
b. Regular – This category of students is non-sponsored, normally registered as full
time students.
c. Industrial Doctoral Program
With a view to encourage more sponsored candidates from industry for Ph.D. Program, this new
provision will enable those experienced sponsored candidates who have constraints in attending
regular classes on the campus like other sponsored candidates. For this new category of students
the Advisor will have enough freedom to recommend for a particular student the type of courses
and the mode through which the required courses to be completed by the concerned student.
The Eligibility for such programs will be same as defined in the PG regulations.
The Program Fee: will be Rs.1.5 Lakh per annum (same as sponsored Ph.D. program)

Eligibility

Remark

B.Tech./BE in a relevant discipline
+ Technical experience in industry
for 4 years or more

Such applicant will
be
considered
equivalent to an
M.Tech.
degree
holder

Coursework
Requirement
1. Students will be
required to do at
least 16 credits of
coursework.

2. The entire
M.Tech. degree in relevant
coursework may be
discipline + relevant technical
allowed through IP/
experience in industry for 4 years
IS / online mode,
or more
on recommendation
OR
from the advisor.
MSc/MA/MPhil
degree
in
Mathematics/
Statistics
/
Economics/ any non-engineering
discipline + 4 years of experience
Departments will be asked to submit a list of companies which may be considered by
the AAC for allowing admissions under this proposed Ph.D. program. The proposed
companies should have some of their employees with Doctoral degrees.
Students should be required to come to the institute for at least 30 days per year to
get a feel of the campus. This period of 30 days need not be continuous; it could be
in phases (15+15 or 15+10+5) to be mutually decided by the Advisor and the
student.

3

(2) Full-time and part-time students
a. Full Time Students – Students who are not holding regular work/employment and are
primarily engaged in their academic program only. Full time students are expected to
register for academic load of at least 12 credits in a semester.
b. Part Time Students – Registered students who are engaged in regular
work/employment elsewhere and are pursuing the program along with their regular
employment. A part-time student is generally expected to register for at least 4 credits
each semester.
(3) Migration among various categories
a. Migration from part time to full time (and vice versa) is permitted. In particular, a full
time student may be permitted to become a part-time student towards the completion
of the program. Migration from Regular to Sponsored and vice-versa is also
permitted. All migrations have to be requested along with the supporting
documentation by the student for approval to the AAC.

4. Admission
(1) Eligibility and Admission Criteria
a. For M.Tech., an applicant must have a B.Tech./BE/MCA/M.Sc. in CS/IT/EE/ECE or
other disciplines as may be announced, from a recognized university (including State
Universities)/Institute.
b. For M.Tech.(CB) an applicant must have
1.B.Tech./BE in CS/IT/Math-and-Computing
or
2. B.Tech./BE in any other discipline
3. MCA
4. M.Sc. (Physics, Chemistry, Mathematics, Computer Science, Biochemistry,
Microbiology, Biotechnology, Biophysics, Bioinformatics, Biomedical sciences)
5. B.Pharm.
6. MBBS
7. Bachelor in Dental Surgery (BDS)
For Point 2, 3, 4, 5, 6 the applicants must have done the following either during their
qualifying degree or from recognized institution / online education portal:

●
●

at least one computer programming course, and
at least two Mathematics courses

c. For Ph.D., an applicant must have a B.Tech./B.E./MCA/MSc. or an
M.Tech./M.E./MS in CS/IT/EE/ECE or other disciplines as may be announced, from
a recognized university/Institute.

4

d. Discipline wise eligibility conditions for Admission to Ph.D. Programs is as below:

Discipline

Computational Biology
(CB)

Computer Science and
Engineering (CSE)

Electronics and
Communications
Engineering (ECE)

Mathematics

Minimum Eligibility Criteria
Essential (Minimum) Qualifications:
• Candidates must have a BTech / BE / B.Pharma / M.Pharma / MTech /
MS /ME / MCA / MSc / M.B.B.S. or equivalent, to be eligible to apply.
• Candidates must have a CGPA of at least 6.5 on a scale of 10 (or
equivalent) or 60% (applicable for all degrees).

BTech/ BE/ MTech/ MS/ ME in CSE/ IT/ ECE/ EE and allied areas, with
a CGPA of at least 7.5 on a scale of 10 (or equivalent) or 70%.
OR
MCA/MSc(CSE/IT/ECE/EE and allied areas) degree is considered
equivalent to the BTech/BE degree. Such students are eligible to apply
with a condition that they have BSc in Computer Science or BSc in any
other subject with Mathematics as one of the courses. The marks
requirement is same as given above.
OR
MSc in Mathematics with at least 70% marks in both B.Sc and M.Sc or
7.5 CGPA and strong inclination towards CSE/ECE.
BTech/ BE/ MTech/ MS/ ME in CSE/ IT/ ECE/ EE and allied areas with
a CGPA of at least 7.5 on a scale of 10 (or equivalent) or 70%.
OR
MCA/MSc(CSE/IT/ECE/EE and allied areas) degree is considered
equivalent to the BTech/BE degree. Such students are eligible to apply
with a condition that they have BSc in Computer Science or BSc in any
other subject with Mathematics as one of the courses. The marks
requirement is same as given above.
OR
MSc in Mathematics with at least 70% marks in both B.Sc and M.Sc or
7.5 CGPA and strong inclination towards CSE/ECE.
Essential qualification: JRF from either
UGC/CSIR/NBHM/DST or GATE score at least 400.
AND
MSc(Maths)/ MSc (Physics)/ MSc(Statistics)/
MStat/ MPhil(Maths)/ BTech/ MTech/ BE / ME in
CS/ ECE/ Maths & CS and similar inter-disciplinary
programs with a CGPA of at least 7.5 on a scale of 10 (or equivalent) or
at least 70% marks at UG and PG levels.

5

Social Sciences &
Humanities (SSH)

Disciplines and Research Areas: Cognitive Science/Psychology, New
Media and Communication, Development Studies, Economics,
Philosophy, Political Science, Sociology and Social Anthropology.
Minimum Qualification:
● MA/MPhil degree in any Social Sciences, Humanities, Liberal
Arts, Media and Communication or similar areas with a minimum
of 55% or 7.0 CGPA on a scale of 10.
● MSc in Economics, Statistics, Mathematics, Cognitive
Science/Psychology or any basic sciences with at least 55% marks
or 7.0 CGPA on a scale of 10.
● BTech/ MTech or equivalent in any discipline with at least 70%
marks or 7 CGPA on a scale of 10 AND/ OR MBA with at least
70% marks or 3.0 CGPA on a scale of 4.
● MSW/ MCom with a minimum of score of 55% or 7.0 CGPA on
a scale of 10.
● Two years Full-Time Post-Graduate diploma in journalism, digital
humanities, mass communication etc. with a minimum of 55%

Human-Centered
Design (HCD)

UG or PG Engineering degrees in CSE/ECE/Design/Architecture/ Social
Science or other related disciplines (4 year duration course)
OR B.Des/M.Des OR MBBS/MD/M.Phil. OR MCA OR M.Sc/M.A.
degree in design or computing-related disciplines
The marks requirement is CGPA of at least 7.5 on a scale of 10 (or
equivalent) or 70%.

Requirements may be relaxed for exceptional candidates with publications / R&D / software
development experience in their area of interest or those from institutes of national and
international repute.
e. Other eligibility/admission criteria will be decided each year, and may be different for the
different categories of students. Admission to the programs will be based on one or more
of the following inputs:
(i)

Past academic and professional record and recommendation letters

(ii)

Performance in national/international tests for PG programs

(iii)

Performance in the written & programming tests &/or interviews organized by
IIIT-Delhi

6

(2) Reservations
a. The reservation policy shall be decided by the Board of Governors of the Institute.
Exact details about these shall be provided in admission prospectus each year.
(3) Fulfillment of admission requirements
a. On being selected for admission, candidate will be admitted if he/she:
(i) presents original documents fulfilling the eligibility criteria,
(ii) pays the required fee, and
(iii) completes the admission formalities.
(iv) A No Objection Certificate from his/her employer, if the candidate is
employed somewhere.
(4) Non-Degree / Visiting students
A non-degree/visiting student is one who is registered for a degree in a recognized
university/institute in India or abroad, and who is officially sponsored by that
Institute/university to complete part of the academic requirements at IIIT-Delhi. Such
students may do courses or projects in IIIT-Delhi and will be given transcripts for the
semesters spent in the Institute. They will be governed by the rules and regulations of
the corresponding discipline of IIIT-Delhi. Any credit earned by a non-degree student
at IIIT-Delhi cannot be applied towards any degree/diploma offered by IIIT-Delhi at
any time. The admission to non-degree status is decided on a case-to-case basis. The
applications are received by the Dean of Academic Affairs.

5. Financial Assistance
(1) Teaching and Research Assistantship
a. Financial assistantship is available for some Ph.D. / M.Tech. students in the form of
Teaching Assistantship or Research Assistantship.
(i) Teaching assistantship. The students under this plan are expected to help the
instructors in various courses for the smooth running of the course.
(ii) Research assistantship. The students under this plan are expected to help the
faculty members in various research projects. They may be assigned limited
academic duties.
b. A student whose stipend is coming from a sponsored project or an external fellowship
obtained through individual application (like TCS, IBM, Microsoft, Google etc.), will

7

be considered RAs, while they are obtaining support from these grants/fellowships.
All other students will be considered TAs.
c. Only full-time regular students are eligible for assistantships and scholarships. A
Ph.D. student is not eligible for teaching assistantship or scholarship after five years.
d. The teaching/research assistantship for Ph.D. students comprises sustenance stipend
(35% of total), scholarship (15%), and remuneration for academic work (50%).
e. Assistantship for M.Tech. students will be viewed as remuneration for the academic
work (teaching/research) being performed at the institute.
f. Teaching Assistantship for M.Tech. and Ph.D. students will be a ‘0’ credit course
which will show up in Transcript. S or X grade will be allotted for the TA work.
(2) Other Financial Assistance
a. Certain other kinds of financial assistantship such as scholarships or fellowships
might also be available from sources other than the Institute.
(3) Withdrawal and reduction of financial assistantship
a. For Ph.D. students, the financial support continuation shall be contingent upon the
performance in academics and the assigned academic/administrative duties and will
be reviewed every semester. The scholarship part of the assistantship may be
terminated if the student’s academic performance is not as per standards (defined
later). The remuneration part may be terminated or reduced if the student’s
performance in his/her assigned duties is not satisfactory. The sustenance part may
not be terminated or reduced as long as the student remains a full-time student of the
Institute. The reduction/termination, if any, shall be decided by the AAC committee
each year, based on the performance of the student.
b. For M.Tech. students, the financial support continuation shall be based on the
academic performance and the performance in assigned duties (teaching/research).
Continuation/reduction/termination of financial support will be decided by the AAC
every semester.

6. Change from one Program to another
(1) A student can change his/her registration from one program to another. All such requests
shall be made by the student along with the supporting documents. After evaluation of
8

the requests, the AAC may approve the change. The credits for the courses and thesis
shall be transferred to the new program. The change shall not be permitted if the
academic performance in the old program is not good enough for continuation in the new
program. After the changes, the rules for the new program shall be applicable.
(2) A Ph.D. student can change his/her program to M.Tech.. If this change is done by a
student, he/she will be treated as being in the M.Tech. program from the start of his/her
program, and will have to refund the difference in fees and stipend between the Ph.D. and
M.Tech. programs, if any.
(3) If a Ph.D. student fails two reviews, then the AAC may propose either that he or she
leaves the institute; or enroll in the M.Tech. program. If the latter, then usually full
M.Tech. fees would be payable by the student, along with any differences in stipends. In
some cases, the stipend difference may be reduced, waived or deferred on case-by-case
basis.
A warning letter will be issued by the Academic Section to students when they fail the
first review which should also explain the above.
(4) In special cases when a Ph.D. thesis is not found suitable for Ph.D., the candidate can
convert to M.Tech. and resubmit the thesis with suitable enhancements for M.Tech. (and
ensure that other requirements are met). In such a case, repaying of difference in stipends
and fees may be waived. Students enrolled in all those disciplines in which the institute
does not currently offers Masters program, if a student fails his or her comprehensive
exam or the Ph.D. thesis is not found suitable, migration to a different program is not
possible.
(5) An M.Tech. student can change his/her program, if permitted, to Ph.D. and continue to do
the course/research work to enable him/her to meet the requirements of the Ph.D. degree.
Only students with CGPA >8.00 and who have completed minimum of 2 semesters and
20 credits in M.Tech. program will be eligible to apply for the change to Ph.D. program.
The student will be eligible for Ph.D. stipend only from the time he/she is approved for
enrollment as the Ph.D. student. Such a student, for Ph.D. credit requirement, may be
treated as if he/she had joined the Ph.D. program from the start of the PG (here, M.Tech)
program. The student may be granted an M.Tech. degree also, provided he/she fulfils all
the academic requirements for the same. Such a student may also be refunded his/her
M.Tech. tuition fee, if he/she successfully completes the Ph.D. program.

9

7. Ph.D. Student getting an M.Tech.
A student admitted in the Ph.D. program after a B.Tech. can obtain an M.Tech. degree “on
the way” provided he/she completes the academic requirements for the same. For this:
● Courses done for Ph.D. can count towards the M.Tech. degree.
● Work done in the Scholarly Paper or M.Tech. thesis cannot be included in the Ph.D.
thesis.
● A Ph.D. student can apply for an M.Tech. degree only after completing the
Comprehensive examination and after spending at least five semesters in the Institute.
● If a Ph.D. student who obtains an M.Tech. degree and leaves the Institute without
completing his/her Ph.D., he/she will be considered as having changed his program
from Ph.D. to M.Tech. (and will have to refund the difference between stipend and
fees as per rules.)
● Courses such as Summer Refresher Courses will be waived off for such students.
● If OOPD/AP and RM are taken by the student either during the
B.Tech./M.Tech./Ph.D. in IIITD, they are not required to complete these courses
again.

8. Registration
(1) General
a. All Postgraduate students, full time as well as part time, are required to register each
regular semester, unless they are on approved leave of absence. If a student is
working outside the Institute (e.g. working with an external co-supervisor) must
register through electronic means.
i. If a PhD student does not register on ERP, (s)he will be marked “Absent Without
Leave”, and his/her fellowship and other facilities will be stopped immediately.
If an M.Tech. student does not register on ERP, (s)he will be marked “Absent
Without Leave”. If a candidate remains “Absent Without Leave” for two
semesters, his/her registration shall be terminated and a termination letter will be
issued to the student with a copy to the Head of the Department (and to the
Advisor(s) in case of Ph.D. students). Regular reminders (minimum once a
month, so about 4-5 in a semester) will be sent to such students before issuing the
termination letter.
ii. The Annual Review shall be made mandatory for all Ph.D. students, even after
5th year of Ph.D. and no exceptions will be granted for annual reviews and as
long as any PhD student remains registered in the Ph.D. program, they will have
to appear and clear the annual reviews regularly.
iii. After the 5th year of Ph.D., the default fee waiver will be stopped. The student
must pay a fee equivalent to the fee applicable to sponsored students, failing
which his registration shall stand terminated. The Advisor(s) may request for a
waiver of fee in genuine cases.

10

iv. After completing 7 years in the Ph.D. program, all Ph.D. students will be
required to pay a fee equivalent to the fee applicable to sponsored students
mandatorily. The fee waiver request will not be accepted in any case.
v. Ph.D. students can be allowed to register courses and complete the program
within a maximum of 10 years.
vi. The maximum duration of the Ph.D. program will be 10 years from the date of
joining. If a Ph.D. student does not submit his/her thesis within 10 years from the
date of joining, his/her registration will be terminated and a termination letter
will be issued to the student with a copy to the Head of the Department and to the
Advisor(s).

b. Registration process has two parts: Academic, and administrative and both must
be completed in order to complete the registration process. Academic registration
includes filling the registration form and specifying the courses that the student
plans to do in the semester and getting it approved. Administrative part includes
paying all dues to the Institute. A student who is working outside the Institute
may get this completed through a friend/advisor/admin, etc.
c. A student shall normally register for courses if their course requirement
conditions are not fulfilled. A student may register for the courses and thesis
simultaneously in a semester. Thesis/Scholarly Paper registration will be in
multiple “courses” of 4 credits each (i.e. for 8 credits, a student will have to
register for two thesis courses, each of 4 credits).
d. Online Courses: IIIT-Delhi has evolved a system for allowing students to take online
courses. Students can take advantage of the increasing amount of such courses made
available by reputed universities across the world to complement the courses offered in
the institute.

PG students can do Online Courses under approved IP/IS credits of their specific
discipline/program and will be awarded regular grade (A to F) by the concerned
faculty supervisor.
(2) Pre-Registration of Courses
Pre-registration is necessary part of the academic registration for non-first semester
students. In case a student fails to do pre-registration of courses, a penalty may be
imposed if the student does not register his/her preference within the stipulated period.
(3) Late Registration
a. Late registration is permitted as per academic calendar on the payment of late
registration fee. The late fee may be waived if the delay is due to an academic activity

11

undertaken with prior permission. The number of days missed due to late arrival shall
be treated as leave of absence. A fee for late academic registration may be imposed.
(4) Adding or Dropping of Courses
a. A student can change the courses that he/she does in a semester by adding and
dropping courses till the last date for add/drop as specified in the academic calendar.
In addition, a student can drop, with permission from the Chair PG Affairs, some
courses even beyond the last date for add/drop, i.e. before the late drop date
mentioned in the academic calendar.
(5) Cancellation of registration
A student is solely responsible to ensure that all conditions for proper registration are
satisfied, and there are no timetable clashes. The registration may be cancelled by DOAA
for a course if any irregularity is found at a later stage. A student’s registration for the
semester may be cancelled as part of disciplinary action. Leave beyond permissible limits
may also result in cancellation of registration for a semester.
(6) Summer term registration
Registration in the summer term is optional. But if a PG student is doing some academic
work, he/she is required to register. A PG student on financial plan of the Institute is
expected to remain in the Institute and work during the summer term even if he/she is not
registered, though he/she may take vacation as per rules. A student can register for up to
8 credits of which up to 4 credits can be for thesis work/IS.
(7) Registration of an Audit Course
A PG/Ph.D. student can be allowed to take a course as Audit on the condition that it will
count in the maximum course load for a semester but not in the calculation of CGPA.
Further, the faculty teaching the course will specify the requirements including attendance
and a minimum passing grade right in the beginning. The final grade for Audit course will,
however, be ‘S” or ‘X’. A student having “X” grade in a audit course can do the course
again as audit or credit. However, a student having “S” grade in an audit course, cannot do
the same course again.

9. Leave Rules
The students may be granted leave of absence on application to the AAC. The following
leaves are applicable:

12

(1) Vacation and casual leave
a. A post graduate student on financial assistance plan from the Institute may be allowed
vacation leave during any period of Institute’s vacation or during the mid-semester
recess up to a maximum of 15 days per semester (six months), subject to a maximum
of 30 days at a time. Leave not availed in one semester may be carried over to the
next semester.
b. In addition, a student irrespective of the financial assistance may be allowed to go on casual
leave for up to 8 working days in a calendar year, with permission.

(2) On-Duty leave
a. A Ph.D. student may be granted on-duty leave for attending seminars, conferences,
traveling on project work, etc. For this leave, the candidate has to take approval from
his/her advisor as well as the AAC.
(3) Summer leave
a. A PG student who is on financial assistance may be granted leave during the summer
vacation period for undertaking internships, projects etc. This will be “leave without
pay” and during this period, the student will not get the assistantship/scholarship.
Decision on such leave requests will be made by the AAC, which may not grant this
leave if it views that granting of the leave can hinder the completion of the PG
program of the student. All students taking such leave, must report for registration the
next semester, even if they do not have any course requirement next semester. Any
relaxation of this guideline will be decided by the AAC, and will be granted only on
academic grounds (e.g. a student is attending a conference).
(4) Semester leave
a. Semester leave may be granted to students by the AAC upon recommendations of the
supervisor on various accounts, including medical, for up to a maximum of two
semesters in the program. In the case of semester leave, the academic registration of
the student shall be cancelled for that semester. The financial assistance to students
shall also be not available during the period of semester leave. An M.Tech. student
cannot avail semester leave for Internship during the first three regular semesters
(Monsoon and Winter) of the degree program. However, he/she may plan to graduate
by the end of the 3rd Semester for pursuing Internship in the 4th semester, after having
completed all the graduation requirements by the end of the 3rd semester.
b. When the total days of absence is more than 20 days in a semester, the student may be
required to take a semester leave.
(5) Medical leave
a. A student can also take up to fifteen days of leave due to medical reasons. Competent
authority can give up to six more days of leave under special circumstances. All
13

medical leave requests must be supported by a medical certificate issued by a medical
doctor.
(6) Maternity and Paternity leave
a. As per GoI rules.
(7) Unauthorized absence
a. Absence of a student without any sanctioned leave will result in the loss of financial
assistance and may result in the termination of the student’s program.
(8) Leaving the program
a. If a student decides to leave the program, he/she has to leave the program at the end
of the ongoing semester. The student has to inform the AAC and advisors in advance
(at least one month), complete the teaching duties, if any, return all the equipment’s
and data, and get signatures on the no-dues form

10.Working with Collaborators outside IIIT-Delhi
(1) A PG student may interact and work with an approved external co-supervisor in a
collaborating organization. Students shall require permission from the AAC to proceed to
work with the external co-supervisor. All students working with the external cosupervisor shall be governed by the following guidelines during the period of absence
from IIIT-Delhi.
a. Such students shall be required to register each semester as per the registration
procedure of IIIT-Delhi
b. The students are expected to follow the rules of the collaborating institute but shall
continue be governed by the rules and regulations of the IIIT-Delhi.
c. They shall be reporting to the external supervisor(s) for their research work on their
thesis and shall be in constant touch with the supervisor(s) at IIIT-Delhi. This may be
through a regular video/audio conferencing or through regular reporting.
d. Such students are permitted to register as a non-degree/visiting student in an institute
other than IIIT-Delhi and may transfer the credit. Transfer of credits will be decided
on a case-by-case basis by the AAC. The students can also take course on audit and
submit the performance records for the consideration of waiver of course
requirements if desired.

14

e. They shall not be provided any financial assistance from the Institute during the
period they are with the external co-supervisor. Financial assistance during these
periods shall be provided by the collaborating institute as per their norms, or some
other sources like scholarships from agencies, etc.
(2) When working with collaborators outside the Institute, the IP rights will be as decided
between the supervisor(s), and the sponsoring agency, if any. Any such arrangement shall
be done with the concurrence of the AAC, and shall not interfere with the ability of the
student to write his/her thesis and publish results of the work.

11.Internship rules for M.Tech. students
An M.Tech. student may do a single 6-month internship during the course of their
program. The earliest that this internship can take place is during the 4thregular Semester
only. The internships for M.Tech. students will be allowed under the approved internship
rules available on IIITD website.
M.Tech. students may be allowed to submit and defend their thesis during the internship,
provided the student has completed the thesis work and only thesis writing and defense is
pending. If a student has completed the thesis, then the advisor(s) may allow a student to go for
internship, and the student can defend the thesis while being on internship. Based on the
supervisor's recommendation, the Academic section will issue an NOC to students undertaking a
thesis and taking 16 credits for the thesis. The NOC will specifically mention that the thesis
defense is pending for the student. The graduation date will be decided in accordance with the
date of the thesis defense and the date of submission of the final thesis. This will not be
applicable to students taking capstone projects. Other rules for issuing NOC will remain the same.
The supervisor will have to submit the grade along with the final thesis as per the timeline
mentioned below
Graduation Dates
S.No.

Events

1

Submission of final thesis report
after thesis Defense

2.

Final grade will be updated after the
Thesis Defense and final thesis
submission at the end of

June 21

Sept 21

Jan 21

By May 21

By Aug 21

By Dec 21

Winter
Semester

Summer
Term

Monsoon
Semester

15

12.Teaching and Evaluation
(1) Teaching
a. As specified in the Regulations for B.Tech. Program
(2) Continuous evaluation
a. As specified in the Regulations for B.Tech. Program

(3) Grading scheme
a. One of the letter grades given in the following table shall be awarded to a student
reflecting his/her overall performance in a course. Each letter grade carries certain
points as given in the table, and these points are used in the computation of the
SGPA/CGPA as explained later.
Letter Grade
A+ (Outstanding)
A (Very Good)
A(-)
B (Good)
B(-)
C (Satisfactory)
C(-)
D (Marginal)
F (Fail)

Grade
Points
10
10
9
8
7
6
5
4
2

I (Incomplete)

Nil

W(Withdrawn)

Nil

S (Satisfactory)
X (Unsatisfactory)

Nil
Nil

Remarks

Letter grades A+ to F and I are given only in the regular courses.
This grading scheme is effectively A to F; A+ is only to recognize
excellent performers in a course – it has same points as A.

F Grade is not counted in the calculation of CGPA, however, it is
counted in the calculation of SGPA.
Incomplete (I grade) must be converted to one of the letter grades
(A to F) as per the academic calendar
“W” grade shall be printed in the transcript of the students who do
‘Late Drop’
S and X are grades for only certain kinds of courses like Audit
course. They are not incorporated in SGPA/CGPA calculation.

b. In the academic courses, the final grades awarded are A to F (A+ is a grade with same

points as A, and is there to honor excellence).
c. An I (Incomplete) grade may be awarded in cases when all the requirements for a
course are not met by the student at the time of submission of grades, and it
essentially reflects an “incomplete” status in the ERP. For all courses including
project based courses this grade must be converted to a regular letter grade (A to F, S
16

or X) within one month of the end of the current term (moderation date). For courses
other than project / independent study, incomplete grade “I” is meant primarily for
medical reasons. All unconverted “I” grades are automatically converted to F grade
after the grade conversion deadline, which is one month after the moderation date
d. All courses in which a student obtains an F grade must be repeated or replaced by
another equivalent course.
e. Thesis/Scholarly Paper registration will be in multiple “courses” of 4 credits each (i.e.
for 8 credits, a student will have to register for two thesis courses with the name
M.Tech. Thesis progress, M.Tech. Scholarly Paper progress, M.Tech Capstone
Project progress each of 4 credits) and S/X grades will be assigned to each of these.
At the end of the last semester, the student will register for 16 credits of M.Tech.
Thesis and final letter grade will be awarded at the end of Thesis defense for full 16
credits which will be counted towards SGPA and CGPA. Similarly, for scholarly
paper, student will be register for 4/8 credits of M.Tech. Scholarly Paper in the last
semester and the final letter grade will be awarded after the submission of SP report
to the advisor. Further, student’s advisor(s) also has(have) to submit a report for
student’s progress to AAC.
(4) Performance Indicators – SGPA and CGPA
a. The semester performance is indicated by a Semester Grade Point Average (SGPA)
which is a weighted sum of all the points earned in the courses done in a semester.
The SGPA is given for each semester and is computed using the following formula.
SGPA = (u1.w1 + u2.w2 + … + un.wn) / (u1 + u2 + … + un),
Where ui is the number of credits for the course i and wi is the points earned through
the letter grade in that course.
b. While doing the computation of SGPA, the course/thesis credits with grades S and X
are ignored.
c. The overall performance is indicated by a Cumulative Grade Point Average (CGPA)
which is computed in the same manner as the computation of SGPA but for all the
courses done in the program. While the F and X grades shall show on the grade sheet,
the original grade of a course repeated/replaced is ignored in the computation of
CGPA.
d. ‘F’ grade shall not be counted in the calculation of CGPA, however, it is counted in
the calculation of SGPA.

17

13.Minimum Academic Performance Requirements
(1) M.Tech. program
a. The minimum graduating CGPA is 6.5.
b. The minimum SGPA/CGPA for continuing in the program is 6.0. If the SGPA/CGPA
falls below this, the student may be placed under warning first, and if the performance
does not improve, may be asked to leave the program.
(2) Ph.D. program
a. The minimum graduating CGPA is 7.5.
b. The minimum continuing CGPA is 7.0. If the CGPA falls below this, he/she may be
asked to shift to M.Tech. program or leave.
c. If the SGPA in the first semester falls below 7, the student concerned will be issued a
warning by Academic Section.

14. Students under Warning
(1) For a student who is under academic warning there will not be any financial penalty because
of academic warnings in the case of Ph.D. students. Similarly, such students can also be assigned
TAships. However, the student will not be allowed to be on any elected/nominated

committee representing students of the Institute, and if s/he is on any committee he/she
shall resign.

15. Requirements for the M.Tech. Degree
(1) Per Semester Load Requirements
A normal full time load is 12 credits to 20 credits including the credits of OOPD, RM and
TAship. For the students doing TA duty, it will count as 4 credit load. A student may be
permitted an overload of at most 4 credits in a semester in 2rd and subsequent semesters if
he/she has CGPA>8.00. Students who have completed the stipulated course requirements
shall register for thesis or scholarly paper in multiple “courses” of 4 credits each (i.e. for
8 credits, a student will have to register for two thesis courses, each of 4 credits) and S/X
grades will be assigned to each of these. No overload shall be permitted in the thesis unit
registration. Part time students may register for any number of credits lesser than the
normal full-time load.

18

(2) Course Work Requirements
a. A student may do an M.Tech. with thesis or with scholarly paper or without ‘thesis
and scholarly paper’. In some programs, Thesis is a mandatory requirement for which
program specific regulations need to be referred. In with-thesis option, an M.Tech.
student must complete a minimum of 32 credits of course work. In the Scholarly
Paper option, the student must complete 40 or 44 credits (depending on the credits of
the Scholarly Paper). In without ‘thesis and scholarly paper’ option, the student must
complete 48 credits of course work. The supervisor or the AAC may advise the
students with insufficient background to do additional course credits. In addition,
students are required to do some “refresher” modules for strengthening their
background. These modules will be reflected in the transcript.
For the students admitted in academic year 2018-19 onwards, the grades earned in the
`Summer refresher’ courses will not be counted towards CGPA calculation and in 48
credits of degree requirements. However, summer refresher grades will reflect in the
transcript. The grades for `Object Oriented Programming’ and `Research Methods’
will count towards CGPA and the credits for these courses will be over and above 48
credits degree requirement.
b. An M.Tech. student must complete the core/bucket requirements for completion of
degree. He/she can replace upto two courses falling under the category of elective by
another elective and IS/IP by another IS/IP. Further, a core course grade can only be
replaced by a core course.
c. M.Tech. students can also repeat a course which they have already done for grade
improvement, in such cases best of the 2 grades will count towards the CGPA. An
M.Tech. student may also be allowed to do extra courses. All such permissions shall
be granted by the AAC upon requests from the students
(3) Thesis/Scholarly Paper credit and Total Credit requirements
a. For M.Tech. with-thesis, a student has to complete a minimum of 16 credits of thesis.
For M.Tech. with scholarly paper, he/she has to complete 4 or 8 credits of scholarly
paper. The total minimum credit requirements for an M.Tech. degree is 48 credits
(32+16 for M.Tech. with thesis, and 40+8 or 44+4 for M.Tech. with scholarly paper).
A M.Tech. student can also do M.Tech. without ‘Thesis and Scholarly Paper’, i.e
with 48 credits of course work. However, for some programs Thesis is a mandatory
requirement for which students are required to refer program specific requirements.
19

b. For the purpose of grading in the thesis/scholarly paper credits registered, the
progress in the thesis/scholarly paper work shall be assessed by the thesis
supervisor(s). For each semester, one S (if the performance is satisfactory) or one X
(if the performance is not satisfactory) grade shall be awarded by the thesis
supervisor(s) to each of the registered thesis/scholarly paper courses of 4 credit each.
In the last semester a letter grade shall be awarded for the complete 16 credits of
Thesis/4 or 8 credits of Scholarly Paper.
(4) Thesis Option: Supervisor, Evaluation, and Defense
a. The M.Tech. thesis shall be done under the guidance of thesis supervisor(s), who
shall be regular faculty member(s) of the Institute or a Visiting Faculty (with a Ph.D
degree). A thesis may also have co-supervisors, who may be Adjunct Faculty of the
Institute, or external co-supervisors approved by the AAC.

b. An M.Tech. thesis shall be evaluated by an evaluation committee which shall consist
of the supervisor(s), including co-supervisors, and two other non-supervisor
examiners. For a thesis, it is desirable to have one of the examiners from outside the
Institute. The committee must be approved by the AAC.
c. The M.Tech. thesis must be defended by the student in front of the thesis evaluation

committee. The defense should be held no earlier than one-week after the thesis has
been submitted (exceptions may be granted by Chair PG Affairs). The thesis
evaluation committee shall make its recommendation to the AAC.
d. For Scholarly paper the evaluation committee consists of only the Supervisor (s).
e. For Capstone project the evaluation committee consists of Supervisors which include
supervisor from industry/research lab. The grades for members in a team will be
decided by the supervisors of the project, based on their assessment of the work done
by the members, and the extent to which they have been able to meet the deliverables
(5) Scholarly Paper Option: Supervisor and Evaluation
a. A student doing M.Tech. with Scholarly Paper has multiple options for completing
the scholarly paper requirement: a Regular Scholarly Paper and a Capstone Project.
b. Regular Scholarly Paper: The regular scholarly paper shall be done under the
guidance of a supervisor, who shall be a faculty member of the Institute. A scholarly
paper may also have co-supervisors, who may be Adjunct Faculty of the Institute, or
external co-supervisors approved by the AAC. For this scholarly paper, no defense is
required. It will be evaluated and signed by the supervisor(s) and the result along
with copy of Scholarly paper communicated to the Academic Administration.
20

c. Capstone Project: Scholarly paper can also be done through a capstone project. The
projects are usually defined by one or more faculty members who will act as
supervisors, but can include supervisors from industry or other academic institutions.
Students can undertake to do a project singly or in a team. The deliverables of the
project will be clearly specified by the supervisors, as will the grading scheme to be
adopted in meeting these deliverables. The grades for the students in the team will be
decided by the supervisors of the project, based on their assessment of the work
done/deliverables, and the project report. The grades along with a copy of project
report will be communicated to the Academic Administration.
(6) Award of degree
Upon a satisfactory report from the Dean, Academic Affairs, the Academic Senate may
recommend the award of the M.Tech. degree to the student. The default graduation date
for a M.Tech. student will be after completion of 2 years of the M.Tech. program. In case
a student completes his graduation requirements in 3 semesters and want to graduate with
an early date, he can request for the same. While pending the actual award of the degree
in a regular convocation of the Institute, the Dean of Academic Affairs may authorize the
Registrar to issue a provisional certificate to a student who completes the requirements
for graduation.

16. Requirements for the Ph.D. Degree
(1) General
A student shall be considered for the award of Ph.D. degree by the academic Senate only
upon the completion of the requirements mentioned here. Per semester load requirements
of Ph.D. students is same as for M.Tech. students. However, Ph.D. students who are on
assistantship may be given a relaxation of up to 8 credits in the normal full time load.
(2) Course Work Requirement
a. The requirement of the course work for a Ph.D. student is aimed at providing the
basic academic preparation to carry out the research, and have sufficient breadth in
the area. The minimum course requirement for a Ph.D. student is normally 32 credits
for students whose highest degree is a B.Tech. (or equivalent), and 16for those who
have an M.Tech. (or equivalent). A Ph.D. student need to complete this requirement
only by doing courses of 500 level or above. However, a Ph.D. student can take any
300 level course for learning purpose. For a Ph.D. student taking on the way M.Tech.
300 level course will count towards M.Tech. as per the clause mentioned in M.Tech.
regulations. After the course work, the student is expected to have sufficient breadth
in at least three of the main sub-areas of Computer Science. The AAC may ask the
21

students with insufficient background to do additional courses (in addition to 32/16
credits).
Further, the following are the other requirements:
Discipline

B.Tech. (or
equivalent)
B.Tech. (or
equivalent)

Coursework
Requirements
32
credits

CSE
M.Tech. (or
equivalent)

16
credits

B.Tech. (or
equivalent)

32
credits

ECE
M.Tech. (or
equivalent)

20
credits

B.Tech. (or
equivalent)

32
credits

CB
M.Tech. (or
equivalent)
B.Tech. (or
equivalent)
Mathematic
s

M.Sc.
(Mathematics
)
M.Phil.
(Mathematics
)

B.Tech. (or
equivalent)

16
credits
32
credits
24
credits
16
credits

1 IS and 1
IP allowed
(4 credits
each)
1 IS
allowed
(4 credits)
1 IS and 1
IP allowed
(4 credits
each)
1 IS
allowed
(4 credits)
1 IS and 1
IP allowed
(4 credits
each)
1 IS
allowed
(4 credits)
1 IS and 1
IP allowed
(4 credits
each)
1 IS
allowed
(4 credits)
1 IS
allowed
(4 credits)

SSH***

24
credits**

Special Requirements

56 credits

56 credits

56 credits

56 credits

32
credits
Max. 2 IS
allowed
( 4 credits
each)

M.Phil.

Research
work
Requirement
s

56 credits

RM5xx
Research
Methods
(2-credit
compulsor
y course)*

Sociology/Anthropology: (i). Students are
expected to compulsorily take 3 courses Research Methods in
Sociology/Anthropology, Theories in
Sociology/Anthropology and
Sociology/Anthropology of India worth 12
credits in total. Once these courses are
offered within the dept, the expectation is
that these courses are only taken with the
dept and cannot be substituted for credits if
taken elsewhere. The total of 32 course
credits will be divided as 16 credits for
Courses and 16 credits for Ph.D. level
research seminar style classes (where
research papers are intensively discussed by
the course instructor). Students are
encouraged to actively audit any related
courses other than those expected for credit

22

HCD****

M.Tech. (or
equivalent)

16
credits

B.Tech. (or
equivalent)

32
credits

12th + 5 years
of relevant
education

24
credits

M.Tech. (or
equivalent)

16
credits

coursework with the permission of the thesis
adviser.
(ii). The student is expected to have
published in well reputed national/
international journals and presented at well
reputed national/ international conferences.
In case of book chapters, the expectation is
to have published them with well-reputed
international publishers such as Sage/Wiley
etc. The thesis advisor and the AAC will
judge the nature and the prestige of the
conferences/book publishers.

1 IS and 1
IP allowed
(4 credits
each)
1 IS
allowed
(4 credits)
1 IS
allowed
(4 credits)

56 credits

*This will not be counted to minimum credit requirement and may be waived for those who did a same course during their
B.Tech./M.Tech. program at IIITD
**This waiver in coursework may only be provided with the permission from the thesis advisor and the dissertation committee.
***500-level courses (or higher) will be considered towards the Ph.D. program. However, students may be allowed to take at most
two advanced undergraduate courses (300-level or higher) with the permission of the thesis advisor and AAC.
****The course work will include mandatory courses from Design and will be taken from a bucket defined by the DRC of the dept.

Note: M.Tech. (including dual-degree M.Tech. students) and B.Tech. students joining Ph.D.
program within two years of completing their B.Tech./ M.Tech. degree from IIITD (irrespective of
when they join) may be allowed by AAC to do one additional IS with strong recommendation of
Advisor(s).

b. In special cases, for students with advance standing by virtue of their academic
preparedness and/or by virtue of their professional work experience, some of the
course requirements may be waived. All such waivers shall be decided upon by the
AAC and reported to the Senate.
c. A Ph.D. student may be permitted to replace up to two courses done by him/her and
in which he/she has obtained passing, but not good, grade. The replacement will be
permitted as and when the request is made by the concerned student after publication
of result provided it does not result in underload. In this case, the earlier course will
be listed in the transcript as having been taken on “Audit”. He/She may also be
permitted to do extra courses to improve the CGPA. All such permissions shall be
granted by the AAC upon requests from the students.

23

(3) Transfer of Credits for Courses done Outside
a. Students may be permitted to do academic work and courses in places of repute
outside IIIT-Delhi. Based on their performance/quantum of work done and the
content of the course, the AAC may consider them equivalent to some course credits,
and waive credit requirements for similar courses/projects within IIIT-Delhi.
Institutions with which IIIT-Delhi has arrangements/MOU/student exchange
programs, transfer of credits may also be permitted. Any such waivers/transfer is
permitted only if the courses being considered have not been counted for any other
degree/diploma requirement.
b. It is clarified that the CGPA of the course taken at other universities with whom we have no
MoU will not contribute towards the CGPA at IIITD. For the exchange program, we will
refer to the MoU to know if the grades should be counted in CGPA or not. If any student does
any course at some other University where there is no MoU, then by default, the grades will
not be counted towards the CGPA. These will only contribute to the total credits for
graduation at IIITD. It is also made clear that the counting of credits or CGPA will be dealt
with in accordance with the clarification given above.

(4) Thesis credit requirements
a. All Ph.D. students irrespective of their entry category are expected to successfully
complete a minimum of 56 credits by thesis. In truly exceptional cases where the
Ph.D. candidate is ready with a thesis before he/she has accumulated these credits, the
AAC can consider waiving off some of these credits. For the purpose of grading in
the thesis credits registered, the progress in the thesis work shall be assessed by the
thesis advisor(s). For each semester, one S (if the performance is satisfactory) or one
X (if the performance is not satisfactory) grade shall be awarded by the thesis
advisor(s). The thesis grades shall be submitted by the thesis advisor(s) at the end of
the semester.
Ph.D. students on completion of 5 years of registration will continue to do online
registration in the ERP and will present their progress of research work before the
monitoring committee till they submit the final thesis for evaluation.
(5) Thesis Advisor and External joint advisora. The thesis work shall be done under the guidance of the Ph.D. advisor, who shall be a
faculty member of the Institute. An adjunct faculty can also be an advisor, with
permission of the AAC. There may be multiple advisors. A student can change the

24

advisor later – for this a formal request will have to be submitted to AAC and has to
be signed by the old as well as the new advisors.
b. Assignment of Advisor(s) will be done as under:
1. For a student who is selected on project funding or Institute funding – the offer of
admission to be issued to the student will state that the student has to choose from one of the
following two options:
i. To be on specific project funding under X faculty. In this case, X faculty will
be the student advisor from Day 1 of his/ her Ph.D.
ii. To be on Institute funding, for which there may be more than one interested
faculty members (names will be disclosed in the admission offer letter) and
in this case, a student will have to finalize the advisor within a month of his/
her joining.
2. For a student who is selected on project funding - the offer of admission will state that
the student has been selected under X faculty member against Y project position. If he/ she is
keen to accept the offer, then he/ she may do so. In this case, X faculty will be the student
advisor from Day 1 of his/ her Ph.D.
3. For a student who is selected on Institute funding - the offer will state that the student
has been selected under Institute funding. In this case, names of all the interested faculty
members will be disclosed in the admission offer letter and the student will have to finalize
the advisor within a month of his/ her joining.
● Ph.D. students coming through regular admissions will be required to join the Institute
at least a month before the add/ drop week. This practice may be started from the next
admission cycle.
● A Ph.D. student selected through regular admissions will be on Institute fellowship for
the first month of his/ her Ph.D.
● A Ph.D. student will be required to finalize the name of the Ph.D. advisor within a
month of his/ her joining the Ph.D. program and as early as possible. From the day of
assignment of Ph.D. advisor, the fellowship source of the student will count against
his/ her advisor.
c. A student may also have external joint advisor for the thesis. Such external joint

advisor shall be approved by the AAC upon a request by the student, duly approved
and forwarded by the advisor(s). The request must be accompanied by the CV/Bio or
sufficient information about the proposed external joint adviser which will allow the
AAC to evaluate the suitability. Normally, the external joint advisor should be
25

finalized before the comprehensive and the AAC should be informed by the adviser
and the student about the same.
d. Change/ Status of Advisor of a Ph.D. student when (i) Advisor (Regular faculty)
leaves IIITD and becomes adjunct faculty (ii) when the Advisor leaves the
Institute or when the student wants to change the Advisor and (iii) when the
Advisor (Regular faculty) goes on long leave.
The request should be considered as per guidelines available at Annexure.

(6) Monitoring Committee and Yearly Review / Yearly Seminar
a. The AAC shall form a monitoring committee for each candidate, whose task will be
to independently monitor and report on the progress of the candidate. The committee
should generally be formed before the end of the candidate’s second semester in the
program and should consist of at least three faculty members/experts.
b. The monitoring committee shall submit its evaluation about the progress of the candidate,
at least once a year. If the monitoring committee feels that the candidate is not making
sufficient progress, it may recommend suitable actions to be taken, including
recommending that the student leave the Ph.D. program or migrate to M.Tech., as given
in 6(3). This review may be done by requiring the Ph.D. students to make presentations
about their progress, or through some other method.

(7) Comprehensive
The aim of the comprehensive examination is to check the understanding of the Ph.D.
student about his/her area of research. (Though a comprehensive traditionally was meant
to check that the student has sufficient breadth, the Institute feels that this type of breadth
requirement should be fulfilled through courses, and the comprehensive should be used to
test the “comprehension” of the candidate about his/her main area of research.) For the
comprehensive, the student shall present a complete literature survey (much on the lines
of papers in ACM Surveys), research proposal and research plan on his/her area of work.
The survey report will be submitted to the committee formed for the comprehensive
exam by the AAC. The student will present a seminar on the above. The seminar should
be open for all to attend. After the seminar, the committee may examine the student
further and will submit its report regarding the outcome of the comprehensive to the
AAC. If the student fails the examination, he/she is allowed an additional half a semester
( i.e. 3 months) to retry.
A student is expected to complete his/her comprehensive examination as per the
following timeline:

26

Sl.No
.

Category of Ph.D. Student

Time limit for completion
of Comprehensive Exam

Ph.D. students admitted directly from
a B.Tech.
Ph.D. students after completing
M.Tech.
Ph.D. students migrating from
M.Tech. from the date of joining
Ph.D.

5 semesters

4

Ph.D. students after completing
M.Sc.(Mathematics)*

4 semesters

5

Ph.D. students after completing
M.Phil(Mathematics)*

3 semesters

1
2
3

Remarks

3 semesters
3 semesters
For the comprehensive examination,
the student shall present a complete
literature survey
(much on the lines of papers in EMS
Surveys in Mathematical
Sciences/Expositions
Mathematicae), research proposal and
research plan on his/her area of work.

* Applicable for Ph.D.(Mathematics) students only

For SSH :
Economics - Time limit for completion of comprehensive exam is 4 semesters, irrespective of the
students' background. In special cases one semester extension may be provided with a maximum
of two attempts with permission from the thesis advisor and AAC. Students with an MPhil degree
may be allowed to attempt the comprehensive exam after the completion of three semesters.
Sociology/Anthropology - Time limit for completion of comprehensive exam is 3 semesters,
irrespective of the students' background. In special cases, one semester extension may be
provided with a maximum of two attempts with permission from the thesis advisor and AAC.

(8) Regular Seminars / Yearly Review
This requirement for regular seminar or a yearly review is moved to item (6).
(9) Teaching Requirements
a. One of the potential career options for the research students is academics. The Ph.D.
program at IIIT-Delhi aims to develop suitable teaching skills among the research
students through teaching requirements. Towards this, it requires all students on
financial assistantship plan of the Institute are required to take part in the teaching
activities.
b. All Ph.D. students must be TA for at least two semesters to satisfy the teaching
requirements for a Ph.D. degree. Students on research assistantship will also be
required to complete this requirement, though they may be assigned lighter load each
27

semester. The feedback received from the course students on the TA work will be
part of the Ph.D. student record, and will be an input in evaluation.
c. Below are the TA rules
1) A Ph.D. student getting institute fellowship for full duration of Ph.D. is required to
do TA duty for 8 semesters
2) A Ph.D. student who is RA (throughout) is required to do TA duty for a minimum
of two semesters
Institute support for 1st year followed by Project support
for the remaining duration

- 2 TA duty must

Institute support for 1stand 2ndyear followed by Project
Support for the remaining duration

- 4 TA duty must

Institute support for 1st, 2ndand 3rdyear followed by Project
Support for the remaining duration

- 6 TA duty must

Institute support for 1st, 2nd, 3rdand 4th year followed by
Project Support for the remaining duration

- 6 TA duty must

Institute support till 9th Semester followed by Project
Support for the remaining duration

- 7 TA duty must

TA duty to be done in the first 4 years.
If a student has not done the required TA duty, TA portion of the stipend shall be
deducted.
d. Students will be assigned their TA duties towards the end of a regular semester for
courses in the next semester. During the break, they should prepare themselves for the
course, and with help from the instructor, design the assignments, develop the
solutions and grading of the assignments. They will also be involved in the grading of
the exam papers and developing the solutions to the exam papers. Senior students are
also encouraged to be a tutor as well as take part in the class room teaching, along
with the corresponding instructors. Such arrangements are to be worked out between
the instructor in-charge of the course and the student. It is expected that the load of
TA work in a semester will be similar to that of a course, that is, approximately 10
hours per week.

28

e. The teaching requirement may be waived for part-time and/or sponsored candidates
(as their professional goals are likely to be already defined.)
f. Issue of academic warning and termination of registration of Ph.D. students who are
not performing their TAship duties sincerely
Academic Section will take feedback about such TAs from faculty members on a monthly
basis. This will help in sensitizing the students who are not performing their TA duties. If a
Ph.D. student gets an “X” grade in TAship in one semester, then (s)he will be issued an
“Academic Warning”. Further, if any Ph.D. student receives 2 such “Academic Warnings”,
then his/her registration from the Ph.D. program will be terminated. Any academic warning /
termination letter issued to the Ph.D. student should also be shared with his/her PhD
advisor(s), so that Ph.D. advisor(s) can sensitize the student about the roles and
responsibilities of a TA.

(10) Thesis submission, Evaluation and Defense
Each Ph.D. student is expected to write a thesis report on the Ph.D. work. The thesis
has to be submitted by the student for evaluation. Guidelines for Ph.D. thesis
evaluation are given separately.
(11) Award of degree
a. Upon acceptance of the revised thesis by the AAC, the Chairman, Senate may
recommend the award of the Ph.D. degree to the student. While pending the actual
award of the degree in a regular convocation of the Institute, the Chairman, Senate may

also authorize the Registrar to notify the result and issue a provisional certificate to a
student who completes the requirements for graduation.
The date on the degree shall be as follows:
● June 21 for the students who finish their requirements during the winter semester

(e.g. 4th semester of M.Tech.)
● Sep 21 for those who finish the requirements during summer term.
● Jan 21 for those who finish the requirement during the Monsoon semester

17.Prizes and Medals/Awards at Graduation
a. The academic Senate of the institute can set up awards, prizes, medals etc. to be given to
deserving students at graduation time.

29

b. Under exceptional circumstances, where gross violation of the conditions of the
awards/recognition or academic misconduct is detected at a later stage, the Senate may
recommend to the Board of Governors to withdraw the award and recognition

18.Disciplinary Action Framework
IIIT-Delhi maintains global academic standards in its own education system. Therefore, it
does not tolerate any form of indiscipline/ academic dishonesty. Action will be taken
against students found engaging in acts of indiscipline/ academic dishonesty by
Disciplinary Action Committee (DAC) constituted by the Director. The disciplinary
action may result in semester/year/two year drop or even expulsion from the Institute.
Separate rules and regulations have been formulated to handle the cases of violations.

19.Migration from B.Tech. to Dual Degree Program
A B.Tech. student can opt to migrate to dual degree program of the institute anytime
before the last date of Add/Drop of his/her 7th semester of the B.Tech. program.
Eligibility criteria for this and regulations for the dual degree program are given
separately.

20.Power to Modify
Notwithstanding all that has been stated above, the Senate has the right to modify any of
the above regulations from time to time.
Change History
Version 1.1 (Jan 2012): Some changes were to simplify the explanation. Changes to rectify
some observed deficiencies are:
● 1 (1). Clarified that in Senate there will be at least one student representative….
● 3 (2) Full time and Part-time student is now defined directly as student working full or part
time for his/her studies. Further, “a full time student is expected to register for at least 12
credits in a semester”. Minimum credits for which a part-time student must register changed
to 4.
● 3(3) Clarified, that a full time student may be permitted to become a part-time student
towards the completion of the program.
● 5 (1) b. Clarified that a Ph.D. student is not eligible for teaching assistantship or scholarship
after five years.
● 5 (1) c. Simplified description of Assistantship as sustenance stipend (25% of total),
scholarship (25%), and remuneration for academic work (50%).
30

● 6(2) Clarified that if a student changes his/her programme from Ph.D. to M.Tech. then
difference in stipends, including difference in tuition fees, will have to be refunded.
However, if it is done on the recommendation of PGC, then the student is treated as M.Tech.
student from the time of transfer and this refund is not necessary, and the student may be
given preference for M.Tech.. Assistantship.
● 6 (4) Migration from M.Tech. to Ph.D., added: “Such a student, for Ph.D. credit requirement,
may be treated as if he/she had joined the Ph.D. program from the start of the PG program.
The student may be granted an M.Tech. also, provided he/she fulfils requirements for the
same”.
● 7 Clarified that registration for student working with an external co-supervisor may register
through electronic means.
● 11 Minimum continuing CGPA of 6.0 in M.Tech. program is made uniformly applicable to
all students irrespective of TA/non-TA ship., if the CGPA falls below this, then the student
may be placed under warning first, and if the performance does not improve, may be asked to
leave the program.
● 11 (2) The minimum continuing CGPA in Ph.D. program is 7.0. If the CGPA falls below
this, or the student is not progressing well in his/her research, then based on the
recommendations of the adviser, he/she may be placed under warning or may be asked to
shift to M.Tech. program or leave.
● 13 (1) Normal per semester load for M.Tech. is relaxed to 12 to 20 credits instead of 16 or 20
credits specified earlier.
● 14 (5) b. The following has been added: “Normally, the external co-supervisor should be
finalized before the comprehensive and the PGC should be informed by the adviser and the
student about the same.”
● 14(7) Comprehensive. Clarified that operational details will be informed by the PGC.
Version 1.2 (July, 2013): include changes:
● Enabler to Ordinances
● 3(2)
Full time students
● 8(2)
Pre-registration
● 8(3) .b
Penalty for late registration
● 11(3).a
Grading scheme table
● 12(1)
M.Tech. programme requirements
● 12(2)
Ph.D. programme requirements
● 14(1)
Normal full time M.Tech. load
● 16
Prizes and Medals/Awards
● 17
Disciplinary Action Framework
● 18
Migration from B.Tech. to Dual Degree Program
● 19
Power to Modify

31

Version July, 2014 Main Changes made are:
i) From Winter Semester 2014 TA to be treated as a ‘0’ credit course
ii) Options for Scholarly paper/ industry internship/Capstone project added.
iii) Regulation 6 regarding change from Ph.D. to M.Tech. modified
iv) Procedure to award degree to students who complete requirements in December added
v) Registration of Online courses added
vi) Revised CGPA calculation added

Version August, 2014 Main Change made is:
Change in Comprehensive examination and timeline for completion of comprehensive

Version July, 2015
i) Replacement upto 2 courses permitted anytime
ii) Fresh M.Tech. student’s thesis guidance by Adjunct faculty allowed only with a cosupervisor
iii) Revision of timeline for Ph.D. comprehensive examination
iv) Revision of Ph.D. thesis evaluation guidelines
v) Issue of Ph.D. provisional certificate by Registrar
Version July, 2016
(i) Starting of Ph.D. program in Mathematics
(ii) Minor changes in Grading table
Version January, 2017
(i) Structural changes for PGC
(ii) Regulations for handling special requirements for different disciplines
Version July, 2017
(i) Eligibility criteria for admission to M.Tech.(CB)
(ii) Research Methods course compulsory for all new Ph.D. students
Version April, 2020
Para 1, (2) – Constitution of PGC
Para 4, (1), (d) – Discipline wise minimum eligibility criteria for admission to Ph.D.
programs
(iii) Para 5, (1), (d) – Sustenance and scholarship portion of teaching assistantship for Ph.D.
students
(iv) Para 6, (5) – Eligibility of M.Tech. students for transfer to Ph.D. program
(i)
(ii)

32

Para 7 – Requirement of OOPD and RM for students who did another degree in IIITD
prior to enrollment in the current degree
(vi) Para 9, (4) – Updates semester leave rules for PG students
(vii) Para 11, (3), (c)-Timeline for conversions of ‘I’ grade to proper grade
(viii) Para 11, (3), (e)– Thesis/SP registration rules. Applicable from 2019 batch onwards
(ix) Para 12, (1), (b) – Added SGPA
(x) Para 14, (1) – Clarity in per semester load requirements. Applicable from 2019 batch
onwards
(xi) Para 14, (2),(a) – M.Tech. without Thesis option added. Applicable from 2019 batch
Onwards
Counting of Summer Refresher, OOPD and RM grades. Applicable from 2018 batch
onwards
(xii) Para 14,(2),(C)- Repeating a course already done
(xiii) Para 14, (3), (b) – Grading for M.Tech. Thesis/Scholarly Paper. Applicable from 2019
batch
(xiv) Para 14, (5) – Removed Industrial Project option
(xv) Para 15, (2) – Updations in course work requirement table.
(xvi) Para 15, (9), (c)- TA Rules
(v)

Version January, 2021
(i) Para 1(2) – AAC Committee
(ii) Para 2 – Semester start dates
(iii) Para 4.1- Addition in M.Tech. CB eligibility criteria
(iv) Para 8.7 – Repeating audit course
(v) Para 9.4, 11 – Internship rules for M.Tech. students
(vi) Para 12.3(e) – Nomenclature for M.Tech. Thesis/Scholarly Paper
(vii) Para 15(6) – Graduation date for M.Tech.
(viii) Para 16(2) – Ph.D. course requirement
(ix) Para 16 (11) – Degree granting dates

Version February, 2023
(i)
(ii)
(iii)
(iv)
(v)
(vi)

3 (c)
4.1.d
8 (1)
11
14
16(2)
a.

Industrial Doctoral program introduced
Minimum qualification for Ph.D. in CB and SSH
Change in Registration procedures and maximum duration of Ph.D. program
Change in Internship rules for M.Tech. students
No financial penalty for academic warning issued to Ph.D. students
ECE Dept. yearly review rules changed
-One additional IS for IIITD graduates joining Ph.d. program within 2 years of
completing their B.Tech. /M.Tech.
(vii) 16(3) Transfer of credits
(viii) 16(5) Assignment of advisors
(ix) 16(5) d- Status/change of Advisor when the Advisor (Regular faculty) leaves
(x) 16(9) f.- Warning/termination of registration of Ph.D. students not doing TA duty sincerely

33

Annexure
Status of Advisor (Primary/Co-advisor) of a Ph.D. student when Advisor (Regular faculty)
leaves IIITD and becomes adjunct faculty before and after the comprehensive examination
The Senate at its 55th meeting held on 27.7.2022 approved the following recommendation of the
Academic Affairs Committee (AAC) made in its 19th meeting held on July 13, 2022:

i. IITD does not use the terminology of primary advisor and co-advisor and instead calls
them joint advisors. The same should be used throughout.
ii.

For students who have already completed their comprehensive:
a. The faculty member may continue as the sole Ph.D. advisor. In such cases, a
caretaker advisor will be appointed for administrative matters only. The
caretaker advisor will not be mentioned as an advisor in the thesis.
b. If there happens to be a case of major revision in the thesis, the advisor will be
asked to help the student in carrying out the major revision. If s/he is unable to
provide help for some reason, the caretaker advisor appointed in this case will
be requested to provide the help for carrying out the revision.
c. If the caretaker advisor provides substantial help in carrying out the major
revision, s/he can be appointed as a joint-advisor
d. Further, during the annual review, the monitoring committee will judge the
progress of the student and if it is deemed insufficient then the monitoring
committee may recommend having a joint-advisor from IIITD. The decision
of the joint-advisor will solely be of the student and existing advisor

. iii. For students who have not completed their comprehensive:
a. A joint-advisor from IIIT-Delhi will have to be appointed and the Ph.D.
student will be asked to find one and inform the Academic Section at the
earliest. The student will be treated as not having an advisor and same rules
will apply, i.e., in case the student does not find an advisor from the Institute in
6 months, s/he may be asked to leave the Ph.D. program.
Change of Advisor when (i) the Advisor leaves the Institute or (ii) when the student wants
to change the Advisor
Further to above the Senate also approved the following recommendation of the AAC made in its
20th meeting held on July 25, 2022:
Change of the Advisor when (i) the Advisor leaves the Institute or (ii) when the
student wants to change the Advisor:
34

Request for change of the Advisor may be considered as per the existing rules. If there is
any dispute between the student and the Advisor, the efforts should be made to settle the
matter amicably. However, if the matter can not be resolved amicably and the student
gives in writing that he/she will not include any part of the research work carried out
with his/her existing Ph.D. Advisor in his/her Ph.D. thesis, then the student may be
allowed to change the Advisor. The new advisor will have to ensure that no past work is
used.”
.
These guidelines now supersede the previous guidelines related to change of Advisor, approved
in 32nd meeting of the Senate (Item 32.19).

Status of the Advisor when the Advisor (Regular faculty) goes on long leave.
The Senate also agreed to the recommendation/suggestions of the AAC made in its 19th meeting
held on July 13, 2022 and approved as under:
It is clarified that when the Advisor (Regular faculty) goes on long leave a Caretaker
Advisor will be appointed during the long leave on the recommendation of the existing
Advisor(s) / DOAA. It is also suggested that in the form for long leave the word ‘Co
advisor’ should be changed to ‘Caretaker Advisor”.

35

