ORDINANCES FOR THE MTECH / PHD PROGRAMS
1. General
(1) The basic structure and philosophy of M Tech / PhD programs is defined in
Regulations for M Tech / PhD Program, and are applicable to current M Tech /
PhD programs and any M Tech / PhD program that may be introduced in future.
However, a program may have additional requirements, which will be specified in
regulations for that program.
(2) The Senate is the main body for all academic matters relating to M Tech / PhD
programs, and notwithstanding anything that has been stated in the regulations,
the Senate has the right to modify / relax any of the regulations from time to time.

2. Academic Calendar
(1) As specified in the Ordinances for BTech Program.

3. Admission
(1) Method of admission to the MTech/PhD programs shall be decided by the Senate
and announced every year.
(2) The number of admissions that can be made to any approved program of the
Institute shall be as decided by the Board of Governors, and announced each year.
The Board shall seek inputs for the same from the Senate.
(3) The reservation policy shall be decided by the Board of Governors, and shall be
announced each year.
(4) Every student admitted provisionally or otherwise to any program of the Institute,
shall submit, by the prescribed date, copies of the qualifying degree/provisional
certificate and other such documents as prescribed by the Senate.
(5) The admission of a student may be cancelled by the Senate at a later date if it is
found that the student had supplied some false information or suppressed relevant
information while seeking admission.
(6) Fees for admitted students shall be as decided by Board of Governors.

4. Financial Assistance
(1) Certain number of assistantships/scholarships/fellowships may be provided for
PhD / M Tech students. This number may change from year to year.

5. Teaching and Evaluation
(1) As defined in Ordinances for B Tech Programs.

6. Continuing in the Program
(1) For continuing in a program the student has to show satisfactory academic
performance as defined by the Senate from time to time. If the academic
performance falls short, a student may be placed under warning, his/her
assistantship/scholarship/fellowship may be stopped/reduced, or his/her program
may be terminated.
(2) A student may change from one program to another as provided by the
regulations.

7. Leave
(1) Different types of leaves and rules for availing them are as specified in the regulations.

8. Collaborative/Joint Programs
(1) Rules and guidelines for participating in joint/collaborative programs shall be as
defined by the Senate.

9. Graduation Requirements and Grant of Degrees
(1) A student becomes eligible for the award of the M Tech / PhD degree after
fulfilling all the academic and non academic requirements prescribed by the
Senate.
(2) A student who completes all graduation requirements is recommended by the
Senate to the Board of Governors (BOG) for the award of degree in the
convocation.
(3) Under exceptional circumstances, where gross violation of the graduation

requirements or use of dishonest means is detected at a later stage, the Senate may
recommend to the Board of Governors to withdraw an already awarded degree.

