Regulations for M.Tech. (Research) Computer Science and Engineering (CSE)
1. Preamble
IIIT-Delhi subscribes to the view that a Masters (Research) degree is primarily research-focused
and aims to prepare a student to develop an adequate in-depth understanding of a foundational topic
of today’s computing technology. The decision whether the degree is to be pursued for skill and
knowledge upgradation or also for building research skills at pre-doctoral level should rest with a
student.

2. Program Educational Objectives
The main PEOs of the program are to produce graduates that are well prepared:
● PEO 1: to undertake research centric academic and/or industry careers involving problem
solving using computing technologies.
● PEO 2: to perform collaborative research & engagement with peers and lead innovation in
projects.
● PEO 3: to demonstrate the requisite breadth and depth of knowledge in advanced areas of
Computer Science and Engineering.
● PEO 4: to contribute to society by becoming a model professional who can communicate
effectively and follow ethical behavior.

3. Program Outcomes:
At the end of the program a student is expected to have an ability to:
● PO 1: apply concepts from varied disciplines including computer science, electronics,
mathematics, and the sciences, to engineer and develop robust and scalable systems.
● PO 2: identify, formulate and analyze complex engineering problems, interpolate and
extrapolate existing knowledge base and arrive at creative solutions.
● PO 3: utilize cutting edge software packages, libraries, programming languages, and
software development environments.
● PO 4: make judicious use of resources and understand the impact of technology across the
societal, ethical, environmental, and economic aspects.
● PO 5: demonstrate knowledge by communicating the findings and effectively present the
results.
● PO 6: perform independent, continuous, and life-long learning required to excel in a
professional career.

4. General Requirements
a. Eligibility Criteria:
i.
B.E./B.Tech. in CSE/IT/ECE/EE, or an M.C.A., or an M.Sc. in

ii.
iii.

Mathematics/Statistics from a recognized university
universities)/institute.
Percentage marks ≥ 75% or Equivalent CGPA.
Mandatory GATE in CSE/IT/EC/EE/MATH/ST

(including

state

b. Reservation: The reservation policy shall be decided by the Board of Governors
of the Institute. Exact details about these shall be provided in the admission
prospectus each year.
c. Program Structure:
The overall credits requirement for the M.Tech. (Research) is 48 credits. In addition to 48
credits a student has to complete a summer refresher of 4 credits, Object Oriented
Programming and Design (4 credits) and Research Methods (2 credits). Requirements of
48 credits are as follows:
i.
4 courses equivalent to 16 credits of CSE 500 level or above from the list of courses
available at http://techtree.iiitd.edu.in/ or being offered in a semester.
ii.
M.Tech. (minor) thesis spanned over the first two semesters of the program with 4
credits registered in each of these semesters. The evaluation will comprise
1. Minor thesis submission in the prescribed format by the department
adhering to the guidelines mentioned therein.
2. Minor thesis presentation by way of a poster or seminar at the end of the
second semester.
iii.
24 credits of M.Tech. thesis spanned over the second year of the program. The
evaluation will comprise
1. M.Tech. thesis submission in the prescribed format by the department
adhering to the guidelines mentioned therein.
2. M.Tech. thesis defense evaluated by a committee. The committee will
include
a. A faculty member of the institute working in an allied area of the
thesis topic.
b. A(n) (preferably external) expert familiar with the topic of the
thesis.
*Change of supervisor may be allowed in some special circumstances before the second
semester starts.
*Minor thesis in the first and second semester will be assigned with an S/X grade and a
final letter grade will be awarded after the poster or seminar presentation for full 8 credits
which will be counted towards SGPA and CGPA.
*There is no provision for students admitted to M.Tech. (Research) program in CSE to
switch to regular M.Tech. program in CSE.
*The students are allowed to take up internships in summer term with approval of the
supervisor.

d. Program Completion:
i.
Continuing CGPA of at least 6.5 in every semester.
ii.

Graduating CGPA of at least 7.0.

iii.
iv.

v.
vi.
vii.
viii.

There will be an academic warning sent to the student if the CGPA falls below the
minimum required.
Students have the provision for grade improvement similar to the provision
available for regular M.Tech Program.
Registration can be terminated if there are two consecutive warnings.
Completion of credit requirements.
Successful submission and defense of thesis.
(Desirable) Research publication at a reputed venue.

5. M.Tech. (Research) Assistantship:
Rs. 21000/- per month as per the break-up give in the following:
a. Candidates will be eligible for M.Tech. (Research) Assistantship for a maximum of 24
months from the date of starting of the classes at IIIT-Delhi. GATE score above the
qualifying marks announced by GATE in the past two years and the current academic year,
will be considered valid. Assistantship for M.Tech. (Research) students will be paid at the
rate of Rs. 12,400/- per month as per the approval of AICTE.
b. In addition, IIITD will provide extra support of Rs. 8600/- per month for a maximum of 24
months from the date of starting the classes at IIIT-Delhi.
c. As specified in the Regulations for M.Tech./PhD Programs, a student who is offered an
Assistantship will be required to do 10-15 hours of academic work per week in-lieu of the
Assistantship.
6. Conversion to Ph.D. Program:
a. An M.Tech. (Research) student can change his/her program, if permitted, to Ph.D. and
continue to do the course/research work to enable him/her to meet the requirements of the
Ph.D. degree. Only students with CGPA > 8.00 and who would have completed a
minimum of 2 semesters and 20 credits in M.Tech. (Research) program will be eligible to
apply for the change to Ph.D. program. The student will be eligible for Ph.D. stipend only
from the time he/she is approved for enrollment as a Ph.D. student. Such a student, for
Ph.D. credit requirement, may be treated as if he/she had joined the Ph.D. program from
the start of the PG (here, M.Tech (Research)) program. The student may be granted an
M.Tech. (Research) degree also, provided he/she fulfills all the academic requirements for
the same. Such a student may also be refunded his/her M.Tech. (Research) tuition fee, if
he/she successfully completes the Ph.D. program.
b. An M.Tech. (Research) graduated student will be eligible to pursue the sponsored Ph.D.
program of the institute with a 100% fee waiver if he/she starts the Ph.D. program within
two years from his/her graduation date.
7. Other General Regulations:
In addition to the specific regulation mentioned above, all other general regulation as specified in
the institue’s approved PG regulations will also be applicable for M.Tech. (Research) Program.

