Regulations for the Dual Degree Program in Computational Biology (CB)
1. Preamble
Dual degree programs are common in India and most IITs have it. The main motive
behind such a program is to have some of the UG students of an Institute do their M.Tech.
in the same Institute, so the Institute can leverage the training it had provided and the
seamless transition into the M.Tech. program to benefit its research activity, as well as
reduce the duration for earning the M.Tech. degree. Most dual degree programs allow for
both degrees to be earned in five years. IIIT-D’s dual degree program followsa similar
approach as many other Institutions.
2. Admission and Requirements
2.1 The application process for the dual degree may be initiated in advance and completed
well before the placement starts.
2.2 Application Timeline: Application for Dual Degree may be invited immediately after
the declaration of the result of the 6th Semester. Scrutiny, selection of students,
approval by Chair PGC and declaration of result to be completed by the middle of
June.
2.3 Eligibility: Only students with a CGPA of 7.0 or above at the time of applying are
eligible for the program. A student once selected for the Dual Degree cannot avail
placement services that year. Furthermore, a student selected for the Dual degree may
opt-out from migration before the add/drop date of his/her 7th semester in the B.Tech.
program. The refund of the fee paid towards the dual degree will beregulated as per
Note 3.6 of this Regulation.
2.4 Transfer of 12 credits: Any extra course credits earned during the B.Tech. program
beyond what is required for the B.Tech. degree, up to a maximum of 12 credits as
approved for the M.Tech CB program, may be counted towards course credit
requirements for the M.Tech. degree. So, a student can do extra courses in the 3rd
and 4th years (as Honors students do), and get these credits counted towards satisfying
the M.Tech. course credit requirements, provided the courses are suchthat they
can be counted for M.Tech.
2.5 Waiver of 12 credits: Students, who have undergone B.Tech. (CSB) program of IIITD, have the necessary background and strength in foundations for M.Tech.(CB)
program. Hence, only up to 12 credits of the core course requirement of the M.Tech.
program, which is designed to impart some core knowledge to students, is deemed

to have been satisfied, and the same is waived-off for the dual degree students for
earning their M.Tech degree.
(a) The following three M.Tech.(CB) core courses will be waived off only for
students of the BTech (CSB) program: a) Cell Biology and Biochemistry (CBB) b)
Foundations of Modern Biology (FoMB) c) Algorithms of Computational Biology
(ACB).
Note: As Introduction to Mathematical Biology (IMB) is also a core course for
M.Tech(CB), a dual degree student need to complete this course which is notwaived;
If a student has done IMB course as part of B.Tech. program requirement and not able
to transfer that credit with the clause mentioned in 2.4 in this regulation, the student
will have to do a BIO-numbered course in lieu of that.
(b) The core course requirements cannot be waived off for B.Tech (CSE), B.Tech
(ECE), and other B.Tech (CS+X) students, including those who have done a minor in
CB. Though, up to 12 credits can be waived if a student has done BIO-numbered
courses in their undergraduate program (only counting at most one 3xx level and two
or more 5xx level courses). If a student has done M.Tech (CB) core courses as apart
of their electives, then in lieu of these courses, he or she will have to do other courses
from the M.Tech (CB) curriculum.
Note: The courses considered for transfer of credits with the clause 2.4, can’t be
considered for waiver.
2.6 Mandatory requirement to complete OOPD course can be waived for Dual Degree
students if they have taken AP during B.Tech.
2.7 Mandatory requirement to complete RM course can be waived for Dual Degree
students if they have taken RMSSD during B.Tech.
2.8 A dual degree student will be considered as a B.Tech. student till the time he/she
completes the requirements for the same; thereafter he/she will be considered as an
M.Tech. student. The date for each degree will be based on the date of completing the
requirements for that degree.
2.9 The dual degree student must spend at least two semesters as an M.Tech. student.
2.10
A dual degree student must do an M.Tech. thesis, which may be a continuation
of the work done in BTP. The goals of the MTech thesis should be aligned with the
objectives of the MTech (CB) program.
3. Notes:
3.1 The fee for the M.Tech. portion of the dual degree program will be half of regular
M.Tech. fee.

3.2 The dual degree student will not be eligible for campus placement in his/her B.Tech.
portion, and will be eligible only in his/her last year to use placement services.
3.3 If a student does 12 credits extra in 3rd/4th years, as allowed, he/she will have to do 8
credits more in the 5th year, and at least 16 credits of M.Tech. thesis, for the M.Tech.
degree. The minimum number of credits for M.Tech. part under the Dual Degree
program is 36.
3.4 After the declaration of 8th-semester results, the student should specify whichcourses
should count for B.Tech. and which for the M.Tech. degree.
3.5 Students should be encouraged to take GATE in their 4th year to benefit from the
scheme.
3.6 It is clarified that after admission to the Dual Degree program the student is ineligible
for placement. No refund of the fee will be made if he/she does not join except if
he/she goes for higher studies in which case some amount is deducted (the amount to
be deducted will be decided by the Competent Authority).
3.7 On completion of B.Tech. requirements, the B.Tech. degree may be given on
submission of No Dues Certificate.
3.8 If he/she cannot complete the M.Tech. part of the Dual Degree program, no fee refund
can be made.
3.9 Internship rules for dual degree students will be the same as for M.Tech. students of
the respective batches.

