COMMUNITY WORK GUIDELINES
Community Work (CW) is a mandatory component for the successful completion of B.Tech. program.
Carrying out of 80 Hours of Community Work enables a student to gain 2 credits. Students can do CW
by doing two activities of 1 Credit each (40 hours) or one activity of 2 Credit (80 hours).
Course Outcomes of Community Work
After completing this course, students will be able to:
CO1: Understand social problems and examine the consequences of structural inequalities on
lives of marginalized populations and groups
CO2: Learn about ideas of social welfare, diverse needs of the community.
CO3: Identify the role that they can play in addressing needs of the community/ group.
CO4: Gain hands-on experience of working on larger societal challenges
CO5: Develop skills for engaging with issues of diversity and social justice
CO6: Conceive/Design interventions for addressing challenges faced by society/communities.
Following steps / check points are to be taken care of towards completion of CW:Searching Organization:
•

The student first needs to find an organisation to work with. The student should decide whether
he/she might be working with an NGO or working on something of their own in a group under
the guidance of a faculty/staff at IIITD.
• After discussing with the concerned organisation/faculty/staff, the student must decide on the
number of credits he wants to complete in the particular semester (if he will be registering for 1
credits then he needs to complete 40 hours and if he wants to register for 2 credits then he
needs to complete 80 hours of Community Work).
• The goal of the compulsory CW course is to have practical experience of working with the
community by teaching underprivileged students, working with NGOs by distributing stuff
to poor people, helping blind people to prepare some stuff, volunteering for conducting
health camps etc.
Registration on CW Portal:
•

The student must register their project on the SG/CW portal as per the format. Any information
which could not be completely conveyed in the form must be uploaded as a 'Proposal' file in the
upload files section of the project in this format. The registration for the same must be done
before the add/drop date of the particular semester.

Proposal Approval & Registration on ERP:
•

After submitting the proposal, the student should wait for a mail accepting their proposal
before starting the work. Once the proposal is accepted, the student must register Community
Work credits on ERP (applicable for 2017 and later batches) by the last date of add/drop and can
continue working on it during the upcoming semester until the semester ends.

Weekly log submission:
•

While carrying out the Community Work activity, a student has to maintain the log report for
each day. The report should mention the details of work done each day (hourly report), and

should be submitted (after getting it signed by the concerned supervisor) on weekly basis on
the SG/CW portal.
Work Completion:

•

As soon as the activity is completed, a student has to obtain a completion certificate from the
respective organization / NGO. The certificate should have the stamp and contact no. of the
person incharge from the organization/NGO. Student is also expected to prepare a report and
submit it on the mentioned date which will be one week before the Community work
presentation in the format specified here .

Community Work Presentation:
•
•
•
•

o
o
o

The report should be submitted at least a week before the day of presentation which will be
held in the beginning of the next semester.
Together with the report, a completion certificate from the organization where he/she
did the CW activity is to be submitted on the portal.
The student also has to prepare a presentation (set of 8-10 slides) /poster .
There will be a presentation every semester (during the first 2-3 weeks, as per the date specified in
the calendar) wherein the student has to present the activity undertaken by him/her. Below is
the semester wise presentation schedule that is to be followed
Work done in Monsoon Semester - Presentation to be done Winter Semester(as per the
date specified in the calendar)
Work done in Winter Semester - Presentation to be done Summer Term (as per the
date specified in the calendar)
Work done in Summer Term - Presentation to be done in Monsoon Semester (as per the
date specified in the calendar)
Note: In case a student fails to follow the above presentation schedule he/she has to start
afresh, by submitting the proposal, taking approval and doing the work again.

•

Students will also be required to submit the poster / presentation on the portal within 2 days
of the presentation.
• The report, presentation and completion certificates, all these documents are mandatory for
the student to be considered for evaluation.
Based on the presentation student will be awarded “S-Satisfactory” or “X-Unsatisfactory”. In
case of failure to present the work in the subsequent semester, student will be awarded “XUnsatisfactory” grade.
• The earned credits will be mentioned in the final transcript.
•

For any query regarding CW credits students may write to communitywork@iiitd.ac.in or may contact:
Faculty Incharge for CW: Dr. Pravesh Biyani
Academic Officer Incharge for CW: Mr. Ashish Aggarwal

Final Report Structure for CW Activities

Clearly no single report structure will suit all types of work. However, some things
are essential:
•

Name, Roll Number

•

Title of the activity, and start date and end date

•

Details about the NGO: Briefly explain the working of NGO - what do they do? How do
they sustains themselves (in terms of funding)? What is the organizational structure? How
many employees? What are the existing technologies currently in place? etc.

•

Goals and achievements – In detail describe what the NGO/group wanted you to achieve during
the semester (if a group is formed, this will be one common document) and what you have been
able to achieve.

•

Plan and adherence – how you planned to achieve the goal. This should be developed based
on discussion with the NGO (again for the group, this will be one common document) and
how was your adherence to the plan all through the activity.

•

Weekly log – for each week, how many hours were spent, and what specific things were
done in that week. If you had the log on a page include the pictures of your log in your
report itself. Do not create a separate log file.

•

Certificate from the organization: Include the certificate from the organization as a
picture in your report.

•

Team Members: List out names of other students who also did the CW with you with
the same NGO (for the group, list out all the group members).

•

Scope of technology intervention: Based on your experience working with NGO and what
you have learned at IIIT Delhi, briefly explain how IT can play a role in improving upon
the existing activities. If your work involved some technology intervention, please explain
how it will help the organization and how will it be sustained after you finish your activity.

•

Personal account of experiences including what transformation it has brought in your thinking.

Frequently Asked Questions

1. When can I register for CW? Only at the start of Summer/Monsoon/Winter Semester, or at any
time?
The registration dates for CW work will be same as Add/Drop dates as per the Academic Calendar for
Summer/Monsoon/Winter. No registrations will be allowed after the last date of Add/Drop as per the
calendar.
The students of 2017 batch onwards have to register on ERP as well as SG/CW portal. The students of
batches earlier then 2017, have to register on the portal. The proposal approval status will be reflected on
SG/CW portal within a week’s time.
2. Do I have to work with an organisation/NGO? Can’t I do some online course related to
community or teach students for free?
The goal of this compulsory course is to have practical experience of working with the community which
isn’t achievable by doing online course. As per the report format provided by the institute, you are required
to mention in detail about the organisation/NGO you worked with and also ask for the weekly logs.
3. Can I split my 80/90 hours into 40/50 each and can I do 1 credit of work in one semester and
the other 1 credit in next semester?
Yes, you can split your work.
4. Is it necessary to give presentation right after the semester following the completion of CW
work?
Poster presentation dates are notified in the Academic Calendar of each semester. It is mandatory to present
your work in the subsequent semester.
5. Are Powerpoint presentations / slides acceptable during presentation?
No. You need to make a poster on chart paper or you can take printouts and pin them on the board. The idea
is to nicely present your work done. We don’t expect a fancy poster, but your presentation should be
informative and professional.
6. Can I skip presentations?
No. It’s mandatory to present, based on which final evaluation is done. Without the presentation, your CW
credit requirements cannot be fulfilled.
7. Is there a list of NGOs through which I can complete my CW requirements?
Visit the portal and there you can see list of registered NGOs and also the example CW project reports for
reference. In case your NGO is not listed, the respective TA will check it and verify your proposal.
8. Would my work at the summer school in IIITD count toward CW
credits? Yes.
9. I am not able to get a stamp on my certificate from organization.
In special cases only, we allow a student to request the organization to write a formal mail validating
student’s work and student is then supposed to forward the same to communitywork@iiitd.ac.in , faculty incharge and Academic Officer Incharge.

10. Can I work for an NGO outside
Delhi? Yes.
11. Can I do CW in Monsoon/Winter or is it only permitted in the Summer session?
There are no restrictions regarding the scheduling of CW work. If you can manage the workload during the
regular semester, you may choose to do so. Your logs are verified against 80/90 or 40/50 hours requirement
for 2 or 1 credits respectively.

12. After approval of proposal, is there a time limit within which I need to present my CW
work? Please see Q3 in this FAQ.
13. When is the latest semester when I can present my CW work?
If you wish to graduate in June, you should have presented your work in the preceding Winter semester
(i.e., your 8th semester). Therefore you need to plan accordingly and submit your CW proposal at the
commencement of your 7th semester. There will be only one presentation in a semester, typically scheduled
in the first month (as notified in the Academic Calendar).

