Procedure for using the SG/CW Portal
Account Registration Phase
1. Connect to the IIITD network using Forticlient VPN in case you aren’t present on the IIITD network already.
2. Login using your IIITD account at http://sgcw.iiitd.edu.in/
3. In case your Email ID doesn’t match your current batch (for example your email is abc17001@iiitd.ac.in however
you are a student of 2018 batch), go to the update profile section and change your current batch to 2018.

Project Registration Phase
1. Go to the “My Projects” section on the homepage.

2. Click on “Add New Project” for adding a new project. Please note that the button would not be visible once the
registration gets over.

3. Add all necessary details about the project in the next page. Select Category as “Self Growth” or “Community
Work” according to the work you are planning to do.

1

4. Ensure that you are selecting the correct semester and click on Start Project.
5. (Optional) You can associate your project with an organization currently recognized by the institute. It will help
us in the future in finding statistics related to a particular organization.

2

After successfully associating, you will get the following message.

6. Go back to your “My Projects” section and head over to your current project.

7. Go to the bottom of the page and go to the “Upload Files” section. Use the template provided here and submit a
new PDF file as “Proposal”.

8. Now wait for the admin to verify your project. Once the project is verified by the admin, you will receive the
following mail.

3

Project Completion Phase
1. Once the project/work is completed, go back to your current projects on the SG/CW Portal and upload your
logs, final report (as a PDF, using the template here) and your presentation/poster for the report.

2. Once you have uploaded all files, click on submit project so that the Admin can receive your project so that
they can mark it as completed. They can NOT mark it as complete unless it’s not submitted.

4

3. Present your work during the SG/CW Presentation session which happens every semester.
4. Once the presentation is completed, the admin will mark your project as “Completed” and “Presented” and
you will receive the following email.

5. Congrats you have successfully completed your SG/CW Project. You can see the progress on the SG/CW
Portal under every project.

5

