SELF GROWTH GUIDELINES
Self Growth (SG) is a mandatory component of the B.Tech program at IIIT-Delhi. Its aim is to help
students learn extra-curricular / specialized skills or activities. At IIIT-Delhi, students have to do a
minimum 80 hours of Self Growth Work, with an option of splitting the self growth into 2 activities of
40 hours each for 1 credit each. This helps student advance or even add to their skill sets new abilities
which may range from language, sports, art, music, cooking or any specialized skill, thereby enhancing
the students’ abilities apart from just academics. At IIIT Delhi we believe in adding value to a student’s
life and enhancing the student holistically

Course Outcomes of Self Growth
After completing this course, students will be able to:
CO1: To identify quantifiable goals for basic proficiency in a new skill
CO2: To gain basic understanding of tools, techniques, and repertoire necessary for
developing basic proficiency.
CO3: to be able to demonstrate proficiency in the identified skills.
Credits: 2
Minimum no. of hours: 80-90
Proposal Format: here
Report Format: here

Searching Organization:
Student need to first finalize an organization to work with. Students may also work on something on
their own (in a group), under the guidance of a faculty
Registration on SG Portal:
SG registration is to be done on ERP as well as on SG/CW Portal (http://sgcw.iiitd.edu.in/) during the
Add/Drop period of a semester.
Proposal Submission
A detailed Self Growth proposal is to be submitted on SG/CW portal a week before the add/drop. The
proposal should include the organization details, nature of work to be done, etc.
Proposal Approval
For 2017 batch: The students will be able to check the approval status of his / her proposal within a
week after the submission, on SG/CW portal login. After the approval, the student has to register for
SG on ERP during the Add/Drop. If the proposal is accepted, the student may start working in the
present semester and has to present the work (mandatorily) in the subsequent semester
For 2016 and previous batches: The students will be able to check the approval status of his / her
proposal within a week after the submission, on SG/CW portal login. If the proposal is accepted, the
student may start working in the present semester and has to present the work (mandatorily) in the
subsequent semester.

Weekly log submission:
While carrying out the Self Growth activity, a student has to maintain the log report for each day. The
report should mention the details of work done each day (hourly report), and should be submitted (after
getting it signed by the concerned supervisor) on weekly basis on the SG/CW portal.
Work Completion:
A minimum of 80 Hours of activity should be completed while carrying out the Self Growth. Please see
below to know the format of report. As soon as the activity is completed, a student has to obtain a
completion certificate from the respective organization. The certificate should have the stamp and
contact no. of the person incharge from the organization.
Final Presentation/Demonstration:
Once it has been verified, you need to give demonstration of the learnt/ acquired SG activity/ skill
which is then evaluated by the SG faculty in-charge. The demonstration need to be done in the second
week of Monsoon/Winter semester (as per the dates mentioned in the calendar). Work done in Summer
Term need to presented in the immediate next Monsoon Semester, work done in Monsoon need to be
presented in the immediate next Winter Semester and the work done in Winter Semester need to
presented in the immediate next Summer Term. Based on the presentation student will be awarded “SSatisfactory” or “X-Unsatisfactory”. In case of failure to present the work in the subsequent semester,
student will be awarded “X-Unsatisfactory” grade.
For any query regarding SG credits students may write to selfgrowth@iiitd.ac.in or may contact:
Faculty Incharge for SG: Dr. Anuj Grover
Academic Officer Incharge for SG: Mr Ravi Bhasin/Ms. Anshu Dureja

Final Report Structure for SG Activities
Clearly no single report structure will suit all types of work. However, some things are essential:
1. Title of the activity, and name, roll no, of the student
2. Initial capabilities/skills in this area
3. Goals and achievements – In detail describe what you wanted to achieve with the activity and
what you have been able to achieve.
4. Plan and adherence – how you planned to achieve the goal and how was your adherence to the
plan all through the activity.
5. Weekly log – for each week, how many hours were spent, and what specific things were done in
that week
6. Propose extensions: How you plan to extend your current activity into the future and build upon
it.
7. If you have pictures of you doing that SG activity you can always add them.
8. Certificates will be the part of report only.
9. Once the report is made, it should be converted to pdf format and uploaded.

Frequently Asked Questions
1. When can I register for SG? Only at the start of Summer/Monsoon/Winter Semester, or
at any time?

The registration dates for SG work will be same as Add/Drop dates as per the Academic
Calendar for Summer/Monsoon/Winter. No registrations will be allowed after the last date of
Add/Drop as per the calendar.
The best semester to pursue SG is the summers as the students have good amount of time to
dedicate to the training of the SG activity.
You have to register on the portal (by submitting the proposal) in the last week of
April/July/December for Summer Term/ Monsoon Semester/ Winter Semester respectively, and
then check the portal after 2-3 days. If your request for proposal is not approved then drop a
mail to Self Growth email id (selfgrowth@iiitd.ac.in)
2. Do I have to get training by an instructor in person? Can’t I do some online course
related to SG for free?
The goal of this compulsory course is to have practical experience and acquiring the skill in
person which isn’t achievable by doing online course. As per the report format provided by the
institute, you are required to mention in detail about the organization/trainer/instructor you
worked with and also asks for the weekly logs.
3. Can I split my 80/90 hours into 40/50 each and can I do 1 credit of work in one semester
and the other 1 credit in next semester?
Yes you can split your work.
4. Is it necessary to give demo right after the semester following the completion of SG
training?
SG work demonstration dates are announced in the beginning of every semester. It is
mandatory to present your work in the semester following the completion of SG work. For this,
you need to fill out the form (that will be shared at the end of Monsoon and Winter Semester),
after which your documents will be verified and if found correct, you will be allowed to
present.
5. Are Powerpoint presentations/slides acceptable during presentation?
Yes. Along with the practical demonstration of the skill. For some skills for which the demo is
not possible (Eg. Swimming) the students needs to submit a certificate of completion of the
course and also the pictures of practice and progress every week in the power point
presentation.
6. Can I skip presentations?
No. It’s mandatory to present, based on which final evaluation is done. Without the
presentation, your SG credit requirements cannot be fulfilled.
7. Would my work at the summer school in IIITD count toward SG credits?
No, it can be counted towards CW credits.
8. I am not able to get a stamp on my certificate from organization.

In special cases only we allow student to ask the organization to write a formal mail validating
student’s work and student is supposed to forward the same to selfgrowth@iiitd.ac.in, faculty
in-charge and Manager, Academics.
9. Can I do my work outside Delhi?
Yes
10. Can I do SG in Monsoon/Winter or is it only permitted in the Summer session?
There are no restrictions regarding the scheduling of SG work. If you can manage the workload
during the regular semester, you may choose to do so. Your logs are verified against 80/90 or
40/50 hours requirement for 2 or 1 credits respectively.
11. After approval of proposal, is there a time limit within which I need to present my SG
work?
Please see Q3 in this FAQ.
12. When is the latest semester when I can present my SG work?
If you wish to graduate in June, you should have presented your work in the preceding winter
semester (i.e., your 8th semester). Therefore you need to plan accordingly and submit your SG
proposal before the end of your 7th semester. There will be only one presentation in a semester
(One each in Monsoon, Winter and Summer Semester),, typically scheduled in the first half.
13. Will my course fee be reimbursed by the institute?
The Institute has made a provision of reimbursing half the course fee for some activities.
Student may contact AM(Student Affairs) or JM(Academics) for more details. For
reimbursement, you would also need to submit an original receipt of the paid course fee.

