To encourage students, IIIT-Delhi will present different award to the students enrolled in different
programs.

This will be given to only one student of passing batch every year.

The student with the best academic record and highest CGPA of all the graduating students in the entire
B.Tech. Program. The CGPA will be computed till one decimal digit (rounded off) to determine the
eligibility for the award of Chancellor’s Gold Medal. For example. a student is having CGPA of 9.45 and
another one is having CGPA of 9.44 the final CGPA will be considered as 9.5 and 9.4 respectively. If there
are more than one student having equal CGPA, the award will be given to all.

Academic Section will submit a list of eligible student(s) to the Director for his approval with the
recommendation of DOAA.

This medal will be given to the batch topper of each B.Tech. Program
Eexcept to the one who gets the Chancellor’s Gold Medal.

The student with the highest CGPA in each B.Tech. Program (batch topper) will be eligible for this
award. The CGPA will be computed till one decimal digit (rounded off) to determine the eligibility for the
award of Institute Silver Medal. If there is more than one student having equal CGPA, the award will be
given to all.
Academic Section will submit a list of eligible student(s) to the Director for his approval with the
recommendation of DOAA.

This will be given to up to one student in each program for the overall performance in curricular and
extracurricular activities.
Page 1 of 7

Students having CGPA of 8.0 or above are eligible.

A student will be evaluated on parameters of academic performance, research and development
activities, extracurricular activities, values, integrity, citizenship, initiatives, and community services
etc.









DOAA will form a committee within one month after grade moderation. The initial structure of
the committee may comprise of 3 internal faculty members, 2 students (non-graduating batch)
and 1 external member. The Director can change the structure of the committee, if desired. The
Chair of the committee will be nominated by the Director.
The committee Chair may also send requests to other faculty members of the institute for
seeking nominations.
The nominations will be accepted till after one month of winter semester results of each year.
Part of the nomination is a short write-up justifying it.
A student poll, of the graduating batch, will be conducted to take student’s input. Each student
will be asked to nominate two students.
Students can also nominate themselves.
All nominated names will be made available to the committee. The committee may shortlist
candidates and have interaction with them to come to a decision. The committee will evaluate
all the nominations within one month of the formation of the committee and submit its
recommendation to the Director.

Note: For the awards 1, 2 and 3 above, student(s) becoming eligible for award of degree till 21st
September of a particular year will be eligible for the award in a particular year. For those who
graduate with the degree date of 21st January, they will be considered for the award in the next
Convocation.

BTP award will be given to zero, one, or more (usually not more than
Engineering, Research, Entrepreneurship and Design.

three) in each track:.

1. A nomination will be considered for the Best BTP awards if all the evaluation committee members
recommend a BTP for the award. BTP award may be given irrespective of the BTP grade.
2. BTP evaluation committee members will be required to give their nominations and comments for the
Best BTP award through individual forms circulated by the Academic Section after the BTP
presentation of the semester in which the student will complete his BTP.
3. If a BTP is given an award, then all students registered in the BTP will get the award irrespective of
their grades.
Page 2 of 7

4. In case of a joint BTP if in a group of 3 students doing BTP, for example, one student is graduating
in 2019 (X year) and two students are graduating in 2020 (Y year), i.e., X < Y. Then, the B. Tech.
project for the best BTP award nomination will be considered for the earliest graduating year, i.e.,
2019. If this project is selected for BTP award, the two other students who are to graduate in 2020 will
be considered for the award, for the year 2019 in the Convocation year when they will be granted the
degree
If all are graduating in the same year, say 2020 (Y year), then that project will automatically become
eligible to compete in 2020 for the BTP award. To provide a clear indication about the year in which
the award was given, the year will be appended on all the Convocation awards. So the students
securing the award in 2019 and graduating in 2020 will get the award with a mention of 2019 i.e. “BTP
award 2019”.
5. In the case of joint BTP award the names of all the students will be printed on the certificates.
These rules will be applicable from 2019 year of graduation and onwards.
Academic Section will submit a list of eligible student(s) to the committee consisting of DOAA, AAC
Chair, Chair PG Affairs and Chair UG Affairs. This committee will recommend the name(s) of the
student(s) to the Director for approval.
Note: As per UG regulations B.Tech. student, who has already completed his/her graduation
requirement (including registration for a minimum of 8 semesters on campus), are allowed to register
for at most two extra courses in only one extra semester to improve his/her CGPA. Such students are
not considered for any award/medal.

This will be given to zero, one, or more students to recognize the excellent academic performance of
the graduating M.Tech. students getting highest CGPA (after grade replacement) in the graduating
batch across all disciplines. The CGPA will be computed till one decimal digit (rounded off) to determine
the eligibility for this award. If there are more than one student having equal CGPA, the award may be
given to all.
Student(s) becoming eligible till 21st September will be awarded ‘Gold Medal for Excellent
Academic Performance’ at the Convocation. For those who graduate with the degree date of 21st
January, they will be considered for the award in the next Convocation.
Academic Section will submit a list of eligible student(s) to the Director for his approval with the
recommendation of DOAA.
Note: Dual Degree M.Tech. and Ph.D. students taking on the way M.Tech. will not be eligible for this
award.

Page 3 of 7

This will be given to zero, one, or more (usually not more than two or three) M.Tech. thesis in each
discipline.













All M.Tech. students including the dual degree M.Tech. students who have done M.Tech.
Thesis will be eligible. (PhD students taking M.Tech. on the way will not be eligible for this
award.)
Students who will defend their thesis by 21st August will be considered for Best M.Tech. Thesis
Award in the ensuing Convocation.
Students graduating with 21st January degree date will be considered for this award in the next
convocation.

The thesis supervisor will nominate the thesis with a justification for Best M.Tech. thesis award
in the thesis evaluation form.
The nominations will be accepted until 21st August of each year.
After receiving the nominations, AAC will form an evaluation committee consisting of Chair PG
Affairs and M.Tech coordinators. To avoid conflict of interest, the faculty whose student is
nominated for the award should abstain from the decision making process.
If the thesis is nominated, the examiners (excluding the supervisor and co-supervisors) will be
asked, through an online anonymous questionnaire (Annexure I) about the thesis. The
evaluation committee will look at those responses and decide whether the examiners too agree
with the thesis being good enough to be among the best in IIITD. This process shall give us a
small collection of thesis which are potential awardees.
The shortlisted students will be required to give a ten minute presentation (in person or through
skype) before the committee.
The evaluation committee will evaluate all the nominations and submit its recommendation to
the Director by 1st week of September each year.

Criteria for selecting the students for the Doctoral Dissertation Award effective from the year
2022 :
a. All the external examiners should have rated the thesis in category ‘A’ in the initial review.
b. The form seeking recommendations from external examiners should clearly mention our expectations from the thesis.
c. The Academic Section will approach the concerned external examiners after the thesis defense (Viva-voce) with a request whether he/she would recommend the thesis for the Doctoral
Page 4 of 7

Dissertation Award. The examiner with a positive recommendation will also be requested to
briefly highlight the strengths of the thesis and a justification for recommending the thesis.
d. If more than 10% of the students become eligible for the award, then the criteria may be
reviewed after the next convocation.

The Institute reserves the right to refuse the award to a student who has been found involved in any
case of academic dishonesty or awarded disciplinary punishment during studentship at IIITD.

Page 5 of 7

*1.Student Name

*2.Roll Number

*3.How do you rate the thesis for the best thesis award?[on the scale of 1-5,with 5 being the highest rating.]
1

2

3

4

5

Technical Quality
Relevance
Significance
Originality
Presentation
Adequacy of
Citations
Overall

4. Positive Comments

5.Negative Comments

Page 6 of 7

1.
2.
3.
4.

Name of Gold Medal award for B.Tech. students changed to Institute Silver Medal
Change in eligibility for BTP award for B.Tech. Students.
Change in the dates for processing the awards, as per the new degree dates.
Introduction of Doctoral Dissertation Award (51st Senate).

1. Exclusion of dual degree M.Tech. and Ph.D. students taking on the way M.Tech. degree from
post - graduate award “Gold Medal for Excellent Academic Performance”
2. Inclusion of dual degree M.Tech. student in post- graduate award “Best M.Tech. Thesis Award”
3. Revision of guidelines for Doctoral Dissertation Award
4. Inclusion of Design track for BTP award

Page 7 of 7

