Regulations for Minor in Economics
Minor Program:
A BTech student can earn a minor certification in economics by completing a total of 20 credits from
economics courses. Of these, 16 credits must be earned by completing regular courses while remaining 4
credits may be earned by completing additional coursework or by completing independent study (IS),
undergraduate research (UR), or independent project (IP). The minor program is designed to impart basic
training in microeconomics, game theory, and econometrics. Students interested in specific areas of
interest for which a formal course is not offered may opt for independent with individual faculty.
Courses:
In order to earn a Minor in Economics, a student must complete the core courses and complete the
remaining credits by choosing the electives offered from Economics, Management or Finance.
Core Courses for a Minor in Economics: Microeconomics, Game Theory and Econometrics I.
Benchmarking: Economics-minor programs at North American and Indian universities typically require
six courses in economics, including Probability and Statistics, which all BTech students take in 1st year.
Thus, the proposed 20-credit program is standard.
Sequencing: Recommended sequence (in bold).
Year Fall / Monsoon
Spring / Winter
2
Microeconomics
3
Game Theory, Econometrics I, ECO core/electives or MAN electives
MAN elective
4
ECO core/electives, or MAN ECO core/electives, or MAN electives, or
electives, or IP/UR/IS
IP/UR/IS
Notes:
1. The regulations for Minor in Economics are applicable for students who commenced their BTech
program in the year 2016 or later years.
2. A course on ‘Microeconomics’ in this latest version of the regulations document is equivalent to
the ‘Introduction to Economic Analysis’ course from the previous versions.
3. A course on ‘Econometrics I’ in this latest version of the regulations document is equivalent to the
‘Applied Econometric Analysis’ course from the previous versions.
4. Students registered in the BTech CSSS program are debarred from earning a Minor in Economics.
Change History:
July, 2014 release
July, 2018

