REGULATIONS FOR B.TECH. PROGRAMS
For ORDINANCES details please visit at the following link:
https://iiitd.ac.in/sites/default/files/docs/education/BTech-Ordinances.pdf

1

REGULATIONS FOR B.TECH. PROGRAMS
1

General
(1) This document gives the general regulations applicable to all B.Tech. programs. Specific
requirements for a particular B.Tech. program (e.g. B.Tech. in Computer Science and
Engineering) are specified in regulations for that program.
(2) While the Senate is the main statutory body for all academic matters, the Academic Affairs
Committee (AAC), a standing committee of Senate, shall oversee matters related to the
undergraduate and postgraduate programs. This committee shall be appointed by the
Senate and shall have a term of two years. It will consist of DOAA, AAC Chair, Chair PG
Affairs, Chair UG Affairs, 8-10 faculty members having representation from all the
departments. The committee may coopt, with the permission of Chairman, Senate, student
representatives who will be full time students of the Institute, other Faculty members,
Research Staff, and members of the Senate in AAC.
(3) Any condition arising in the B.Tech. program and not covered in the regulations shall be
referred to the Academic Affairs committee which may refer it to the Senate.
(4) Dean of Academic Affairs (DOAA) is the main functionary who ensures the smooth
functioning of the academic programs as approved by the academic Senate, executes the
policies and decisions of the Senate and AAC. DOAA’s office receives, processes and
maintains all records relating to the undergraduate programs including curricula, courses
offered, academic calendar, registration, leave, examinations, grades and award of degrees
and prizes; disseminates information and issues orders pertaining to all academic matters;
processes requests from students regarding academic matters.

2

Academic Session and Calendar


There are two regular semesters and one summer term in a year. Most courses are taught
in the regular semesters. The semester timeline shall be defined in the academic calendar
and will be broadly the following.
a) Semester I (Monsoon Semester). Starts around third week of August and ends
around the third week of December.
b) Semester II (Winter Semester). Starts around third week of January and ends
around third week of May.
c) Summer Term. Starts around first week of June and ends around first week of
August.



A semester is of about four months in duration with 13 weeks of teaching, a mid-semester
recess, a mid-semester examination, and an end-semester examination. Generally the last
2

10 days in the semester are reserved for the end-semester examination, presentations,
demos, etc. The summer term is about half the duration of the regular semesters, and the
courses taught run at a faster pace to complete in duration of the summer term.


3

The academic calendar, published every year/semester, specifies the dates for major
academic activities like registration, examinations, mid-semester recess, etc., will be
prepared and published by DOAA, and tabled in the Senate.

Admission


Number of Seats
The total number of seats will be as decided by the Board of Governors and will
be announced every year in the admission prospectus. No change in the total
number of seats will be done after the merit list for admission has been
announced. The Board may also decide to have a special supernumerary quota for
foreign students.



Admission Criteria
Admission to the undergraduate program at IIIT-Delhi is based on criteria which
use scores from entrance test(s), class XII, and other competitions. Details about
the admission criteria and entrance test(s) whose scores are to be used, are
announced through the admission prospectus each year. The minimum eligibility
criteria for applying is that a candidate must have secured 80% or more marks in
the aggregate and 80% or more in Mathematics in class XII from CBSE/ICSE/IB
board or equivalent is eligible for applying to IIIT-Delhi. Relaxation is given for
category students, as specified in the prospectus. Additional requirements for
minimum eligibility for specific programs are also as specified in the prospectus.
Candidates whose program had been terminated at any other university/institute
on disciplinary grounds are not eligible for admission at IIIT-Delhi.



Reservations
The current reservation policy (decided by the Board of Governors) of the
Institute largely reflects the policy of Delhi Government. Currently, 85% of the
seats are reserved for Delhi candidates (i.e. those who have completed class XII
from a school/college/institute located in Delhi), and 15% for outside Delhi
candidates. Category-wise reservation is provided within these limits, as
explained in the prospectus for each year.



Offer of Admission
(1) During counseling, based on the merit list, a candidate will be invited to join the
institute. A candidate will be admitted if he/she
a) presents all original documents for verification of the information provided in the
admission form
b) pays the required fee, and
c) completes the admission formalities.

3

(2) Those candidates unable to show the proof of fulfilling the eligibility criteria may
be given a provisional admission subject to their presenting such a proof by the
following September 30th.


Cancellation of Admission
(1) The admission of a candidate to the undergraduate program may be cancelled if any
material information provided is found to be incorrect, he/she does not pay the fee
by the given date, or does not report on the announced day for registration. The
Institute reserves the right to extend the date of reporting and date of depositing fee
if a case is found to be genuine.
(2) The admission of a student may be cancelled by the Senate even at a later date if it
is found that the student had supplied some false information or suppressed any
relevant information while seeking admission.

4



Foreign Students
Some seats may be reserved for foreign students. These are usually
supernumerary, and admission for such seats is handled separately. The number
of seats and the process for application and admission are described in each year’s
prospectus.



Non-degree Students
A non-degree student is a student registered for a degree in a recognized
university/ institute in India or abroad and who is officially sponsored by that
Institute/university to complete part of the academic requirements at IIIT-Delhi.
Such students may do courses or projects in IIIT-Delhi, and will be given
transcripts for the academic work carried out at IIIT-Delhi. During their stay at
IIIT-Delhi, such students will also be governed by all academic and disciplinary
rules of IIIT-Delhi. Credits earned by a non-degree student at IIIT-Delhi cannot
be applied towards any degree/diploma offered by IIIT-Delhi at any time. The
admission to non-degree status is decided on a case to case basis. The applications
are received by the DOAA.

Courses and Credits
(1) Every semester the Institute offers some courses, taught by faculty appointed by it.
(2) A course may be of 4, 2, or 1 credit. A registered student who passes a course earns the
credits assigned for that course.
a) A 4-credit course. The course will have 3 hours of lectures per week, with a total of
about 39 hours of lectures (13 weeks). In addition, one hour of interaction per week
is expected, which may be in form of structured tutorials. There may also be labs in
the course.
4

b) A 2-credit course. The course will have 1.5 hours of lectures per week for the whole
semester, or 3 hours of lectures per week for half the semester. The total lectures
hours will be about 20. Intensive short-term courses of 2 credits are also possible,
though it is expected that the duration of such a course will be no less than 3 weeks.
A 2-credit course may or may not have tutorials and labs.
c) A 1-credit course. The course is likely to be run as a short course on a very
specialized topic. Such courses may also be run during vacations. A 1-credit course
will have a total of about 10 hours of lecture over a period of, generally, not less than
2 weeks.
d)

Certain courses such as Self–Growth (SG), Community Work (CW), may be taken
for varying number of credits on case to case basis.

(3) While taking courses in the Institute is the primary means for a student to earn credits,
there may be other approved provisions for earning credit through projects, studying in
other Institutions and transferring credits, etc. Such provisions will be provided in these
or other regulations.
(4) Online Courses
IIIT-Delhi has evolved a system for allowing students to take online courses. Students
can take advantage of the increasing amount of such courses made available by reputed
universities across the world to complement the courses offered in the institute.
1. A B.Tech. student is allowed to register for online courses (OC) as regular courses
(and not in the category of Independent Project (IP)/Independent Study
(IS)/Undergraduate Research (UR)/B.Tech. Project (BTP)).
2. The limit “one course in a semester” for OC means that “no more than 4 credits of
OC can be taken in a semester”.
3. A student can take upto 8 credits of Online Courses in his B.Tech. degree.

(5) TA Duty
UG students can take upto 4 cr as TA duty under the rules as defined in the TA allocation
policy. TAship will be floated as a 2-credit course similar to an online course. For a TA
duty for a 4 Cr course student will get 2 Cr. The grade for which can be S or X (same as
an online course). These 4 credits will be counted within the approved bucket of 8
credits of online courses.

5

5

Registration
(1) At the beginning of each semester, a student shall register for the courses he/she wishes
to take in that semester. A student shall normally be allowed to register for a course only
if he/she has passed all the necessary pre-requisites for that course.
(2) Registration is compulsory for all students who are not on leave of absence, and is the
sole responsibility of the student and must be completed before the last date of
registration. Failure to register may lead to termination of the student for that semester.

5.1

Registration Procedure
(1) Registration will generally be done just before the start of classes in a semester. Preregistration for a semester can be done toward the end of the previous semester. Students
will be informed about these dates and other details every semester.
(2) Registration process has two parts: academic and administrative, and both of these must
be completed in order to complete the registration process. Academic registration includes
specifying the courses that the student wishes to do in the semester and getting the necessary
approvals. Students can seek advice from Advisors nominated for the purpose by the DOAA.
Administrative part includes paying all dues to the Institute.

5.2

Late Registration
Late registration is permitted as per academic calendar on the payment of late registration
fee. The late fee may be waived if the delay is due to an academic activity undertaken with
prior permission. The number of days missed due to late arrival shall be treated as leave of
absence. A fee for late academic registration may be imposed.

5.3

Pre-registration of Courses
Pre-registration is necessary part of the academic registration for non-first semester students.
In case a student fails to do pre-registration of courses, a penalty may be imposed if the
student does not register his/her preference within the stipulated period.

5.4

Adding or Dropping of Courses
A student can change the courses that he/she does in a semester by adding and dropping
courses till the last date for add/drop as specified in the academic calendar. In addition, a
student can withdraw from at most one elective course up to the last date specified in the
academic calendar, which will normally be after the mid-semester examination. During the
summer term, a student may be permitted to drop one course by the late drop date.

5.5

Registration of Students with Backlog Course(s)
A student has a backlog if he/she has not taken or has taken but failed in course(s) of previous
semester(s). The registration of such a student must be approved by the DOAA who will

6

advise the student. Generally, the student should register in a manner that he/she can clear
as many backlog courses as are available.
5.6

Cancellation of registration
A student is solely responsible to ensure that all conditions for proper registration are
satisfied, and there are no timetable clashes. The registration may be cancelled by the DOAA
for a course if any irregularity is found at a later stage. A student’s registration for the
semester may be cancelled as part of disciplinary action. Leave beyond permissible limits
may also result in cancellation of registration for a semester.

5.7

Summer term registration
Registering in the summer term is optional. A student may register for up to 6 credits of
courses that are offered during the summer term (inclusive of SG/CW credits). Out of these
6 credits, for students who have completed the 2nd year of their B.Tech. program, may be
allowed to take up to 4 credits for IP/IS/UR/BTP. An exception may be made for the students
of the graduating batch, who may be allowed to take up to 8 credits. The registration shall
be done just before the start of the term. There will not be any late registration in the summer
term and a student shall not be allowed to add a course after registration.

5.8

Academic Load
In general, students will take courses as per the program. Normal load for the first and second
year students is 16-20 credits and for the third and fourth year students is 16-22 credits.
When a student registers for more credits than the stipulated normal load, it is called the
overload. First year students cannot take any overload. Second year students having a CGPA
of more than 8.0 can take an overload of up to 2 additional credits over 20 credits. Third and
fourth year students having a CGPA of more than 8.0 can take an overload of up to 2
additional credits over 22 credits.
When the student registers for less than 16 credits in a semester, it is called the underload. A
student may be allowed, with permission of the DOAA an underload of a maximum of 4
credits below 16 credits.
Students under academic warning may not be permitted any overload. Such students may be
advised by DOAA to take an underload.
Students can avail underload below 12 credits (as low as 4 credits) only in the eighth
semester of their B.Tech. program. Students wanting to avail internship (industrial,
academic, research, etc.) without taking semester leave can do so under this clause provided
they satisfy the below criteria:
Eligibility to apply for internship at the end of Semester 6
(1) Must have completed 126 credits.
(2) Must have done 4 cr of SG and CW credits in addition to 126 credits.
(3) Must have completed all core courses.
7

(4)

Must have been left with 4 cr of IP/IS/UR/Online courses/BTP. Must be eligible
to do these courses and must have necessary approval of the advisor with whom
he will do these credits.

Only eligible students as informed by Academic office to the placement office will be
allowed to sit for internship interviews.
Eligibility to go for internship at the end of Semester 7
(1) Must have completed 148 credits.
(2) Must have done 4 cr of SG and CW credits in addition to 148 credits.
(3) Must have completed all core courses and other graduation requirements pending
a 4 cr IP/IS/UR/Online course/BTP.
(4) Must have been left with 4 cr of IP/IS/UR/Online courses/BTP. Must be eligible
to do these courses and must have necessary approval of the advisor with whom
he will do these credits.
Students willing to go for internship need to take necessary approval from DoAA. Such
request needs to be placed at least two days before the last date of add/drop. Students
approved for such internship are required to register for 4 credits of only IP/IS/UR/BTP/OC
courses in the eighth semester. Students will not be allowed to do any in-class course during
the internship period.

6
6.1

Teaching and Evaluation
Teaching
Each course is conducted by the Instructor-in-charge with the assistance of tutors and/or
teaching assistants. The Instructor-in-charge is responsible for conducting the lectures,
tutorials, and labs, holding the tests and examinations, evaluating the performance of the
students, awarding grades at the end of the semester/summer term, and transmitting the
grades to the DOAA’s office within the prescribed time limit.

6.2

Continuous Evaluation System
(1) The Institute follows a system of continuous evaluation, in which, during a course, various
instruments like tests, exams, assignments, projects, etc., are given by the instructor to
assess the learning of students and assign grades. All evaluations are the responsibility of
the instructor in-charge of the course. The two main exams – the mid-semester exam and
the end-semester exam – shall normally be scheduled as per the academic calendar while

8

the schedule of the rest will be decided by the Instructor. For 1 or 2 credit courses, the
Instructor will decide the evaluation criteria and the schedule of tests and exams.
(2) Make-up Exam: If a student, for valid reasons such as illness, etc., fails to appear in the
end-semester examination in one or more course(s), he/she may make a request to the
instructor and the academic office for a make-up examination within two days of the date
of the scheduled examination. Such a request must, however, be supported by proper
documentary evidence for justifying the request. For medical reasons, only two medical
applications including mid-semester and end-semester would be accepted for make-up
examinations during the entire duration of the B.Tech. degree completion. Further, for the
grant of medical leave, students are required to upload the medical certificate within five
working days from the date of the missed examination. The Institute reserves the right to
get the medical certificate verified from the Institute Doctor. Finally, the request for makeup examination will be approved by the DOAA.

6.3

Grading Scheme
(1) One of the letter grades given in the following table shall be awarded to a student reflecting
his/her overall performance in a course. Each letter grade carries certain points as given in
the table, and these points are used in the computation of the SGPA/CGPA as explained
later.

Letter Grade
A+ (Outstanding)
A (Very Good)
A(-)
B (Good)
B(-)
C (Satisfactory)
C(-)
D (Marginal)
F (Fail)

Grade
Points
10
10
9
8
7
6
5
4
2

I (Incomplete)

Nil

W(Withdrawn)

Nil

S (Satisfactory)
X (Unsatisfactory)

Nil
Nil

Remarks

Letter grades A+ to F and I are given only in the
regular courses.
This grading scheme is effectively A to F. A+ grade
is only to recognize excellent performers in a course,
though it has the same grade points as an A grade.

F Grade is not counted in the calculation of CGPA,
however, it is counted in the calculation of SGPA.
Incomplete (I grade) must be converted to one of
the letter grades (A to F) as per the academic
calendar
“W” grade shall be printed in the transcript of the
students who do ‘Late Drop’
S and X are grades for only certain kinds of courses
like Audit course. They are not incorporated in
SGPA/CGPA calculation.

9

(2) In the academic courses, the final grades awarded are A to F (A+ is a grade with same
points as A, and is there to honor excellence).
(3) An I (Incomplete) grade may be awarded in cases when all the requirements for a course
are not met by the student at the time of submission of grades and it essentially reflects as
an “incomplete” status in the Evaluation Resource Planning (ERP) system. For all courses
including project-based courses, this grade must be converted to a regular grade within one
month of the end of the current term (i.e., the moderation date). For courses other than
project / independent study, incomplete grade “I” is meant primarily for medical reasons.
All unconverted “I” grades are automatically converted to F grade after the grade
conversion deadline, which is one month after the moderation date.
(4) In certain courses, such as Online Courses (OC, Self-Growth (SG and Community Work
(CW courses, only S or X grade is awarded.
(5) The F and X grades are “fail” grades and the student shall be required to repeat the course.
If the course is a compulsory course, the student shall repeat the same course in another
semester/summer when the course is offered. In the case of an elective/optional course, the
student can replace the course by another elective course.
(6) For at most one compulsory (core) course, after getting an F twice in the course, a student
may be allowed to replace it by an elective course of the respective discipline with the prior
approval from DOAA.
(7) An F and X grade obtained in any course shall be reflected in the grade sheet. However,
when the course is replaced or repeated, the new grade will be used for computation of the
CGPA. The pass grade for the respective course will count towards the SGPA of the
semester in which the course is passed and not in the semester where ‘F’ grade was
awarded. ‘F’ grade shall not be counted in the calculation of CGPA, although it is counted
in the calculation of SGPA.

6.4

Change of Grade Already Awarded
As mentioned in Ordinances, a letter grade, once awarded, shall not be changed unless the
request is made by the Instructor-in-Charge of the course and is approved by the Chairman,
Senate. Any such request for change of grade must, however, be made within four weeks
of the start of the next semester with all relevant records and justification.

6.5

(i) Grade Improvement
For some important core courses, refresher modules may be offered during vacations for
students’ benefit. Based on their performance in the refresher module, only students with
F or D grade may be allowed at most half the letter grade improvement (i.e. improvement
from F to D or D to C- -), although any student can attend. Decision regarding whether
these modules are to be offered during vacation and whether they may be used for grade

10

enhancement will be taken every year. As with a grade change, this grade improvement
will be approved and authorized by Chairman, Senate.
(ii) UG students to repeat (Improvement) of a particular course
Repeat of a course completed with pass grade may be allowed, but only the best Grade in
that course will be counted for CGPA computation. Also, all attempts in that course will
be recorded in the respective semesters’ transcripts and the repeat course will not be
permitted for late drop after mid-semester examination. For repeating a course, a student
has to simply register on ERP during the course registration period.
6.6

Performance Indicators
(1) The semester performance is indicated by a Semester Grade Point Average (SGPA) which
is a weighted sum of all the points earned in the courses done in a semester. The SGPA is
given for each semester and is computed using the following formula.
SGPA = (u1.w1 + u2.w2 + … + un.wn) / (u1 + u2 + … + un)
where ui is the number of credits for the course i and wi is the points earned through the
letter grade in that course, and n is the number of courses taken in the semester. While
doing the computation of SGPA, the course/thesis credits with grades S and X are ignored.
(2) The overall performance is indicated by a Cumulative Grade Point Average (CGPA) which
is computed in the same manner as the computation of SGPA but for all the courses done
in the program.
‘F’ grade shall not be counted in the calculation of CGPA, however, it is counted in the
calculation of SGPA.
(3) The grades in courses will be announced over ERP at the end of every semester. A grade
report for the semester may be issued to a student after the semester upon request. The
grade report may be withheld if the student has not paid the fees or other dues, has a
disciplinary case pending against him/her, has not completed other formalities, or for any
other pertinent reason.

6.7

Transfer of Credits
Students may be permitted to do academic work and courses in places of repute outside
IIIT-Delhi and may be allowed to spend up to 2 semesters at another University. The
maximum credit transfer allowed is 40 credits over the entire B.Tech. program (with a
maximum of 20 credits in a semester). Based on their performance/quantum of work done
and the contents of the course/work, some credits may be transferred for similar
courses/projects. Institutions with which IIIT-Delhi has arrangements/MOU/student

11

exchange programs, transfer of credits may also be permitted. This transfer of credits will
be approved on a case-by-case basis by the DOAA and will be reported to the Senate.
B.Tech. students are allowed to do “extra credits" beyond 156 credits

6.8


B.Tech. students are allowed to do “extra credits" beyond 156 credits required for
completion of B.Tech. requirement. For N extra credits done, the student will be allowed
worst grades in N credits, with a maximum limit of at most 8 credits, to be not counted
towards CGPA computation. The impact of this decision will be reviewed after two
batches have graduated with this option. Following method will be used for calculating
the CGPA:
Method: The below method will automatically decide which extra credits will not be
counted in CGPA:



For CGPA computation at the end of 6th semester, baseline credits will be 116
(equal to 29 full courses including OC but excluding SG & CW). If a student has done
N credits more than 116, then for CGPA computation the following will be done:
- The worst grades in courses totaling M credits will be "removed", where M=
min{8, N}.
- CGPA will be computed based on the remaining credits. It is to be noted that since OC’s
are with S/X Grades, although they will be included in baseline 116 credits, they will
not be counted in CGPA. For example, if a student has done 120 credits including OC
of 4 credits, CGPA will be computed from best grades corresponding to 112 credits.



For CGPA computation at the end of 7th semester, baseline credits will be 136 (including
OC but excluding SG & CW).



CGPA computation for Honors students at the end of 8th semester will be done similar to
a non-Honors student, i.e., s/he will be allowed to not-count worst grades of courses up
to 8 credits. For example, if a student has done 164 credits (excluding SG/CW credits)
including OC of 4 credits, CGPA will be computed from best grades corresponding to
152 credits.

General Rules:


SGPA computation will remain the same for each semester.



CGPA computation will remain the same for first 5 semesters, even if a student has done
"extra credits."

6.9 B.Tech. student, who has already completed his/her graduation requirement (including
registration for a minimum of 8 semesters on campus), will be allowed to register for at most
two extra courses to improve his/her CGPA. Registration after completion of 156 credits,
12

required for graduation, will be allowed in only one extra semester. Further, registration of
extra credits will be permitted provided he/she pays fees for that extra semester. Moreover,
such students will not be considered for any award/medal.
7

Continuing in the Program
For continuing in the undergraduate program, the student has to show satisfactory academic
performance as may be defined by the Senate from time to time. If the academic performance
falls short, a student may be asked to repeat the first year, placed under warning, or his/her
program may be terminated.

7.1

Rules for the first year (excluding the summer term scheduled after the first year)
(1) A student will be put on probation at the end of the first semester, if he/she passes 2 or
less technical courses (courses other than Communication Skills) in the first semester.
For details about department wise technical and non-technical courses of first year,
refer program-wise regulations.
(2) If a student passes 3 or less technical courses in the entire first year provided he/she
did not take semester leave in any of the two semester, his/her program will be
terminated.
If a student passes 3 or less technical courses in the entire first year and was on leave
in either of the two semesters, he will have to repeat the first year, i.e., he/she has to do
first semester in the next academic year and will not be allowed to continue with the
third semester.
(3) If a student passes 4 or 5 technical courses in the entire first year, he/she will have to
repeat the year. Further, if a student passes 3 or less technical courses in the first
semester, he/she will be allowed to take semester leave in the Semester 2 or can
continue in Semester 2. However, in both the cases, he has to follow rule 2 mentioned
above.
(4) If a student repeating the first year fails in more than 1 technical courses in either
semester of the repeat year, his/her program will be terminated.
(5) A student repeating the first year may be allowed transfer of credits only for the nontechnical courses that he/she had passed in his/her previous attempt.

Regular rules for backlog will apply for any courses he/she may have failed.
7.2

Academic Warning/Probation

13

A student shall be placed under academic warning/probation on the grounds of inadequate
academic performance for one (subsequent) semester
(1) If he/she fails in any course in a semester
(2) If he/she gets an SGPA of 4.5 or less in a semester, or has a CGPA of 4.5 or less at the
end of the semester.
The following will apply to a student who is placed on a warning (academic as well as
warning due to disciplinary reasons):
(1) The student will not be allowed to hold any elected or nominated post for any institute
body including the hostel management, students’ activities, and student council.
(2) The student will not be allowed to participate in any event outside the Institute as
member of the Institute team.
(3) No academic overload shall be permitted to such students.
(4) The students may be required by the DOAA to take an underload.
(5) The student will be required to sign an undertaking to agree and follow all stipulated
conditions of warning. All such undertakings shall be countersigned by the
parent/guardian of the student.
7.3

Rules for promotion to next semester for 2nd, 3rd and 4th year students.

If a student gets academic warning because of low SGPA (of <4.0) in two consecutive
semesters and/or gets two or more F grades each in two consecutive semesters, his/her
program will be terminated.

7.4

Attendance and Leave of Absence
(1) A student is expected to attend all classes. For any absence of more than two days, the
student should apply for and take a leave of absence. Penalty for students’ whose
attendance falls below a threshold will be as decided by Senate from time to time, and
communicated to students.
(2) A student may be allowed to take semester leave, with permission before the last date of
add/drop, for any valid reason, as determined by AAC, including but not limited to ill
health, internships, entrepreneurship, family requirements, etc. No semester leave will be
granted after the last date of add/drop other than for the critical reasons such as ill health
(In such cases, no fee refund is admissible if the student has registered for the semester
which is converted to the semester leave later.) A student shall not be permitted more than
four semester leaves in the entire program. Any circumstance leading to more than four
semester leave/drop may result in the automatic termination of the program. This implies
that a student has to necessarily be registered and physically be present on campus for 8
14

semesters during his/her degree program except during the last semester when a student
can go for internship, provided he satisfies the eligibility criteria to go for internship.
(3) If a student is absent from the Institute for more than 20 days in a semester due to medical
or any other reason, this may be converted to a semester leave for that semester by DOAA.
However, if a student represents IIIT-Delhi in some event, with prior permission of Dean
of Students Affairs, absence due to this participation will not be counted.

7.5

Appeals
A student, whose program has been terminated, may appeal against the decision. All such
appeals shall be made to the Senate within two weeks, and the decision of the Academic
Senate shall be final. Other academics related appeals may be made to AAC.

7.6

Branch Transfer
Transfer of B.Tech. students from one program to the other is possible only after the
grades of the first semester are out. This is the only time branch change will occur. A
student must make an explicit request to be considered for program transfer within a week
from the date of announcement of results of the first semester. In his/her request, the
student can mention more than one program in the order of preference. Rules for program
transfer are:

1.

Only the students who satisfy eligibility for a particular branch at the time of admission are
eligible for transfer to that branch.

2.

Students admitted through AICTE need to produce NOC from AICTE if applying for
transfer to another program.

3.

Students must have passed all credits specified for the first semester of the B.Tech.
program.

4.

To be eligible for transfer to Computer Science and Engineering (CSE), Computer Science
and Applied Mathematics (CSAM) or Computer Science and Design (CSD) program or
Computer Science and Social Sciences (CSSS) program or Computer Science and
Biosciences (CSB) program or Computer Science and Artificial Intelligence (CSAI)
program, a student must have received a B or better grade in Introduction to Programming
(IP) and Mathematics-I.

5.

To be eligible for transfer to Electronics and Communication Engineering (ECE) program,
a student must have received a B or better grade in both Digital Circuits and MathematicsI.
Students eligible for program transfer will be ordered in a priority list based on CGPA and
will be granted transfer in order as long as the strength of each program does not violate the
following limits.
15

6.

The base strength of a program for a batch will be the number of students who were admitted
and who are still enrolled in the program as on Dec 15 (after Sem 1) after completion of one
semester, not counting those who were repeating the first year. (E.g. Suppose 110 students
were admitted in a batch and there were 8 repeaters. If 6 of the admitted students dropped
out before Dec 15, then the base strength will be 110-6=104). The final strength of any
program shall not reduce by more than 10% of its base strength. Also, the final strength of
any program shall not increase by more than 10% of its base strength.


Repeaters who are repeating first year are also allowed branch transfer under the abovementioned rules.



In case of a tie in CGPA of students, below tie breaking rules will be followed for
deciding transfer from one branch to another

Tie Breaking Rule I - For transfer to CSE, CSAM, CSD, CSSS and CSB branches, higher
grade in the order of Introduction to Programming, Maths-I, System Management, Digital
Circuits, Communication Skills
Tie Breaking Rule II -Higher JEE Rank
7.7

Migration to Dual Degree Program
A B.Tech. student can opt to migrate to dual degree program of the institute immediately
after the declaration of Semester 6 Results. A student once selected for Dual Degree may
opt out from migration before the add/drop date of his/her 7th semester in the B.Tech.
program provided he/she has not availed the Placement Service. Eligibility criteria and
regulations for the dual degree program are given separately.

8
8.1

Graduation Requirements and Award of Degree
Minimum and Maximum Duration and Credits
The minimum duration for completing the B.Tech. program is 8 semesters (excluding the
semesters in which the student took semester leave or the repeated semester/year). The
minimum number of credits for a B.Tech. program is 156 (including 2 credits each of SG and
CW). The maximum duration within which the requirements must be completed is six years
(12 semesters) (including the semester in which student took semester leave or the repeated
semester/year).

8.2

Graduation Requirements
A student enrolled in a B.Tech. program is eligible for graduation if he/she:
a) Fulfills all the academic requirements of the B.Tech. program in which he/she is
enrolled, as given in the regulations for that program.
16

b) Has completed a minimum of eight semesters in the program (excluding the semesters
in which the student took semester leave or the semester/year he/she repeated).
c) Paid all dues to the Institute and hostels.
d) Has no disciplinary proceedings pending against him/her.
A student who has completed all the graduation requirements may be recommended for award
of the degree.
8.3

Graduating with Honors
A student enrolled in a B.Tech. program may also graduate with Honors, provided the student
completes all the additional requirements for Honors, as specified by the regulations for the
program in which he/she is enrolled. These additional requirements normally should include:
a) The student earns at least 12 extra discipline credits from in-class courses.
b) The student’s program includes a B.Tech. project.
c) The student has a CGPA of 8.0 or more at graduation.

8.4

Graduating with a Minor
A student enrolled in a B.Tech. program may also take a minor in some other area.
Requirements for a minor in an area will be as stated in regulations for that minor. A student
can graduate with a minor if he/she satisfies the requirements for his/her program as well as
requirements for the minor. Requirement for each approved minor will be specified
separately.

8.5

Award of Degrees
(1) The Senate recommends a student, who completes all graduation requirements, to the
Board of Governors (BOG) for the award of degree in the convocation.
Upon a satisfactory report from the Dean, Academic Affairs, the Academic Senate may
recommend the award of the B.Tech. degree to the student. While pending the actual award
of the degree in a regular convocation of the Institute, the Dean of Academic Affairs may
authorize the Registrar to issue a provisional certificate to a student who completes the
requirements for graduation.
(2) The date on the degree shall be as follows:
June 21 for the students who finish their requirements during the winter semester (e.g. 8th
semester of B.Tech.)
September 21 for those who finish the requirements during the summer term
January 21 for those who finish the requirement during the Monsoon semester
17

(3) As mentioned in the Ordinances, under extremely exceptional circumstances, where gross
violation of the graduation requirements or use of dishonest means is detected at a later
stage, the Senate may recommend to the Board of Governors to withdraw an already
awarded degree.

8.6

Convocation
In general, the convocation will be held in the second half of August.
A student who has completed all graduation requirements after the latest Institute
convocation will receive the degree in the upcoming convocation.
Results of students who complete the degree requirements in January may be verified and
put up to DOAA who is authorized to approve for the award of provisional degree.. The
Degree to such students will be awarded in next Convocation and the scroll of such students
may be signed by the Chairman, BoG.

8.7

Prizes and Medals
The academic senate of the institute will set up awards, prizes, medals etc. to be given to
deserving students during their B.Tech degree including awards distributed at the time of
Convocation. All approved student awards and prizes are listed along with their selection
criteria in the “Awards Regulations”
Under exceptional circumstances, where gross violation of the conditions of the
awards/recognition or academic misconduct is detected at a later stage, the Senate may
recommend to the Board of Governors to withdraw the award and recognition.

9

Disciplinary Action
IIIT-Delhi maintains global academic standards in its own education system. Therefore, it
does not tolerate any form of indiscipline/ academic dishonesty. Action will be taken against
students found engaging in acts of indiscipline/ academic dishonesty by the Disciplinary
Action Committee (DAC), constituted by the Director. The disciplinary action may result in
semester/year/two year drop or even expulsion from the Institute. Separate rules and
regulations have been formulated to handle the cases of violations.

10 Power to Modify
Notwithstanding all that has been stated above, the Senate has the right to modify any of the
above regulations from time to time.

18

Change History
Version 2 of the UG Manual, applicable from 2010. Main changes: Organized as Ordinances and
Regulations; Minimum credit requirement for graduation increased to 152. Repeat rules for first
year changed assuming 10 courses in first year.
Version 3 (July, 2013): Main Changes made:
(i) Enabler to Ordinances
(ii) UGC as a body defined and included
(iii) Admission – clarified about the “number of seats”, admission criteria, about foreign
students
(iv) Added “Pre Registration”
(v) Underload defined, along with rule for how a student can go on underload
(vi) Grading scheme clarified – made similar to PG
(vii) Rule for Grade Improvement added
(viii) Rule for Branch Transfer added
(ix) Rule for Migration to Dual degree added
(x) “Graduating with Minor” added
(xi) Dates for degrees specified in “Award of Degrees”
(xii) A small note on “Disciplinary Action” added
(xiii) Small changes elsewhere: Penalties for late registration, etc
(xiv) Also some reorganization for improved clarity and organization
Version 4 (July, 2014): Main Changes made are:
(i)
(ii)
(iii)
(iv)
(v)
(vi)

Procedure to award degree to students who complete requirements in December
Registration of Online courses
CGPA calculation
Reduction of grade due to shortage of attendance
Revision of criteria for branch transfer
Revision of structure of minor

Version 5 (July, 2015): Main Changes made are
(i)
(ii)

Changes in Attendance rules
Change in branch transfer rule

Version 6 (July, 2016): Main Changes made are
(i)
(ii)
(iii)
(iv)
(v)
(vi)

Discontinuation of streams in UG program
Registration of online course (OC) as a regular course
Minor changes in grading table
Some clarification in the rules for first year
Allowed to do ‘extra credits’ beyond 152 credits
Allowed to repeat a course completed with a pass grade

19

Version 7 (January, 2017): Main Changes made are
(i)
(ii)

Change in Semester leave
Changes in Branch transfer rules

Version 8 (July, 2017): Main Changes made are
(i)

Change in Structure of B.Tech.(CSAM)

Version 9 (January 2018): Main Changes made are
(i)
(ii)
(iii)
(iv)
(v)
(vi)

Change in Branch Transfer Rule
Version January 2019
Transfer credits
Change in Branch Transfer rules
Degree requirement revised to 156 credits including SG/CW credits
Provision for two extra courses beyond graduation requirement to improve CGPA

Version 10 (July, 2019)
(i) All operational guidelines are added to the regulations, like
1) Normal course load and overload.
2) Summer course drop.
3) Max credits of online courses allowed in degree
4) Max credits allowed in Summer (applicable from 2017 batch onwards)
5) CGPA computation for Honors students
6) Rules for first year
7) Minimum and Maximum duration of the program
(ii) Time limit for conversion of I grade to final grade
(iii) Less credits in one of the semesters. Applicable from 2019 batch onwards.
(iv) Change in rules for replacement of failed core course (applicable from 2017 batch
onwards).
(v) Transfer of credits
(vi) Total credits required for graduation(applicable from 2017 batch onwards)
(vii) Total credits required for Honors Degree(applicable from 2017 batch onwards)
(viii) Courses for completing Honors Degree(applicable from 2017 batch onwards)
(ix) Semester Leave
(x) Branch Transfer
(xi) Also some reorganization for improved clarity and organization

Version 11 (August, 2019)
(i) Rules for promotion to next semester in 2nd, 3rd and 4th year. Applicable from 2019
20

batch onwards.
(ii) Grade improvement in summer courses. Applicable from 2019 batch.
Version 12 (January, 21)
(i) Replacement of UGC, PGC with AAC.
(ii) Semester start dates.
(iii) TA duty.
(iv) Internship rules.
(v) Degree dates.

21

