INDRAPRASTHA INSTITUTE OF INFORMATION
TECHNOLOGY (IIIT-D)
ORDINANCES FOR BTECH PROGRAM
1 General
(1) The basic structure and philosophy of a B.Tech program is defined in
Regulations for B.Tech Program, and are applicable to current B.Tech
programs and any B.Tech programs that may be introduced in future.
However, a program may have additional requirements, which will be
specified in regulations for that program.
(2) The Senate is the main body for all academic matters, and notwithstanding
anything that has been stated in the regulations, the Senate has the right to
modify/relax any of the regulations from time to time.

2 Academic Calendar
(1)

Each academic year shall have two regular semesters and one summer term.
Most courses shall be taught in the regular semesters. The semester timeline
shall be defined in the academic calendar of the Institute.

3 Admission
(1) Admission to the BTech program is through entrance test(s), which may be
conducted by the Institute or some other, approved body. The eligibility
criteria for appearing in the entrance test(s), weight assigned to the entrance
test performance and other parameters, and the criteria for admission, shall
be approved by the Board of Governors and announced in the admission
prospectus each year.
(2)

The number of admissions that can be made to any approved program of the
Institute shall be as decided by the Board of Governors, and announced in
the prospectus each year. The Board shall seek inputs for the same from the
Senate.

(3)

The reservation policy shall be decided by the Board of Governors, and shall
be announced in the admission prospectus each year.

(4)

Every student admitted provisionally or otherwise to any program of the
Institute, shall submit, by the prescribed date, copies of the qualifying

1

degree/provisional certificate and other such documents as prescribed by the
Senate.
(5)

The admission of a student may be cancelled by the Senate at any time
during the program if it is found that the student had supplied some false
information or suppressed relevant information while seeking admission.

(6)

For admission with advanced standing, policies/regulations shall be
approved by the Board.

(7)

Fees for admitted students shall be as decided by Board of Governors.

4 Teaching and Evaluation
(1)

The medium of instruction will be English for all courses, except for courses
on foreign/local languages.

(2)

Each course is conducted by the assigned Instructor with the assistance of
tutors and/or teaching assistants. The Instructor responsible for conducting
the lectures, tutorials, and labs, holding the tests and examinations,
evaluating the performance of the students, and awarding grades at the end
of the semester/summer term.

(3)

A system of continuous evaluation is employed, in which, during a course,
various instruments like tests, exams, assignments, projects etc. are given to
assess the learning of students. All evaluations are the responsibility of the
instructor of the course.

(4)

At the end of the semester, based on the overall performance in the course, a
letter grade is awarded to each student by the instructor. Each letter grade
carries certain points which are used in the computation of the
semester/overall performance.

(5)

A letter grade once awarded shall not be changed unless the request is made
by the Instructor of the course and is approved by the Senate.

5 Continuing in the Program
(1)

Students admitted to the BTech programs shall normally pursue the program
initially allocated to them. However, the Senate may permit change of
program for a limited number of students, for which it shall specify suitable
regulations/guidelines.

(2) For continuing in the undergraduate program the student has to show
satisfactory academic performance as may be defined by the Senate from time
to time. If the academic performance falls short, a student may be asked to

2

repeat a year, placed under warning/probation, or his/her program may be
terminated.

6 Graduation Requirements and Grant of Degrees
(1)

A student becomes eligible for the award of the BTech degree after fulfilling
all the academic and non academic requirements prescribed by the Senate
and as specified in the Regulations.

(2) The normal duration of the BTech program shall be four years (eight
semesters), in which the student is expected to successfully complete/earn
specified number of credits. A student completes/earns the credits of a course
if he/she registers for the course and obtains a passing grade.
(3) A student enrolled in a BTech program may also graduate with Honors,
provided the student also completes all the additional requirements for
Honors, as specified in the regulations.
(4) A student who completes all graduation requirements is recommended by the
Senate to the Board of Governors (BOG) for the award of degree in the
convocation.
(5) Under exceptional circumstances, where gross violation of the graduation
requirements or use of dishonest means is detected at a later stage, the Senate
may recommend to the Board of Governors to withdraw an already awarded
degree.

3

