Regulations for Minor in Entrepreneurship
A B. Tech student can earn a minor certification in entrepreneurship by completing a total of 24
credits from entrepreneurship courses including a BTP and or IP/IS plus a compulsory
apprenticeship.
There are 2 options in the minor program
Option 1
24 credits of course work
Compulsory apprenticeship (pre-approved)

Option 2
16 credits coursework
8 credit BTP registered under ENT track
Compulsory apprenticeship (pre-approved)

The minor program is designed to provide students with a basic training in entrepreneurship and to
nudge them towards entrepreneurial ventures and incubation.
Courses for a Minor in Entrepreneurship:














Foundations of Entrepreneurship (ENT3xx) (changed from Entrepreneurial Khichadi, ENT412)
New Venture Planning (ENT3xx),
Entrepreneurial Communication (ENT411)
Creativity Innovation and Inventive Problem Solving (Ent 416/ENT 516)
Social Entrepreneurship (ENT3xx)
Foundations of Marketing (ENTxxx)
Foundations of Finance (ECO 331/ENTxxx)
Effective Supply Chain for e-commerce (MGT310)
Entrepreneurial Finance (ENT413)
Valuation and Portfolio Management (ECO 332/ENTxxx)
Micro-economics (ECO301),
Healthcare Innovation and Entrepreneurship Essentials (ENT421/BIO571)
Relevance of Intellectual Property for Startups (ENT414)

 Other courses will be added to this basket on the recommendation of the faculty-in-charge
(Entrepreneurship). The request to add a new course will be forwarded to AAC. The AAC will be
empowered to add a new course.
BTP: A student can earn a maximum of 8 credits for a BTP. The BTP must be registered under
Entrepreneurship track only.
Apprenticeship: This is expected to be an immersive experience for students during the Summer
term (minimum 8 weeks), either working at a startup or towards incubating a startup. The eightweek requirement can also be met by working for a cumulative period of eight weeks during
summer + winter break or over 2 summer breaks at the same startup. In case the startup is wound
up for any reason whatsoever the student in such a case can do the remainder part of
apprenticeship in a new startup. However, in case the startup refuses a student to continue after a

break then the period already spent in case it is less than 4 weeks will not be counted towards the
fulfillment of 8-week requirement.
This should NOT be considered as an internship at any company or organization. Students can enroll
for this project only after seeking due approval from the faculty-in-charge Entrepreneurship.
Students can register for Apprenticeship during summer term. Apprenticeship is compulsory for an
ENT minor.
External Visits & Interactions: There are scheduled visits to startups and accelerators which
students are expected to participate in. There are mentors and practitioners who visit the campus
during scheduled hours for interactions with students in this minor program.
Benchmarking: Entrepreneurship minor programs at North American and Indian universities
typically require 16-20 course credits, with desirable “extra-curricular” entrepreneurial activity for
two semesters. Thus, the proposed 24- credit program that includes courses and entrepreneurship
activities (BTP/Apprenticeship) is standard.
Sequencing:
Most of the courses can be taken by the students during /after their 2nd year. BTP can be done
during the 3rd/ 4th year. Apprenticeship is recommended during the summer term.

Notes:
The regulations for the Minor in Entrepreneurship are applicable for students who commenced
their B.Tech. program in the year 2018 or later.
Change History:
April, 2020 release
June, 2023 release

