Regulations for B.Tech. in Electronics and VLSI Engineering (EVE)
1.

Preamble
IIIT Delhi aims to encourage research and innovation in Information Technology (IT) and
allied areas. The objective of the B.Tech. program in Electronics and VLSI Engineering
(EVE) is to prepare students to undertake careers involving innovation and problem solving
using suitable techniques and hardware and software technologies, or to undertake
advanced studies for research careers.
In order to give due importance to applied as well as theoretical aspects of EVE, the
curriculum for the B.Tech. (EVE) program covers most of the foundational aspects and
also develops in students the engineering skills for problem solving. Towards this, the
B.Tech. (EVE) program at IIIT-Delhi starts with computing and Electronics courses first,
and allows the possibility of doing science courses later. Besides being better suited for
developing engineering capabilities, it also enables the possibility of students seeing newer
applications and possibilities of using computing and electronics in these subjects.
The first semester of the EVE program is common with all - this allows flexibility to
students in moving from one program to the other. The second and third semester is
common with the ECE program. The fourth and fifth semester of the program is relatively
fixed, comprising mostly core courses for the program. From sixth semester onward the
program can be mostly flexible, consisting of electives.
This document specifies the specific regulations for the B.Tech. (EVE) program – the
general regulations for the B.Tech. program are given in a separate document. These
regulations are in addition to the general regulations of the B.Tech. program.

2.

Program Structure
2.1 The set of core courses are shown in the table below (courses mentioned in [ ] are electives
and actual courses for these slots are as defined from semester to semester.)

SEMESTER 1

SEMESTER 2

SEMESTER 3

SEMESTER 4

SEMESTER 5

Introduction to
Programming

Data Structures and
Algorithms

Circuit theory and
Devices

Fields & Waves

Digital VLSI Design

Digital Circuits

Basic Electronics

Embedded Logic
Design

Integrated
Electronics

Analog CMOS Design

Introduction to
HCI

Computer
Organization

Signals and
Systems

Physics of
Semiconductor
Devices

Maths I (Linear
Algebra)

Maths II
(Probability and
Statistics)

Maths III
(Multivariate
Calculus)

Electronic System
Design

[SSH]

[SSH/Advanced
Programming]

[Open Elective]

Communication
Skills

VLSI Design Flow

Technical
Communication +
Environmental
Sciences

2.2 First semester courses are common across all the B.Tech. programs. All students do one
course each in Maths, Software, Hardware, Systems/practice, and Comm. All courses,
except SSH, are core courses.
2.3 List of technical and non-technical courses of first year
Semester

Technical Courses

Non-Technical
Courses

Semester 1

Introduction to Programming
Digital Circuits
Maths I (Linear Algebra)
Introduction to HCI

Communication Skills

Semester 2

Data Structures and Algorithms
Basic Electronics
Maths II (Probability and Statistics)
Computer Organization

SSH Elective

2.4 The semester mentioned for the core courses is indicative and suggested, and they can be
done later/earlier also. However, the pre-requisite requirements must be kept in mind by a
student, if he/she wishes to do a core course in some other semester.
2.5 Most courses in Semester 6-8 are electives (an elective course is one which is not
compulsory, and a student may have choices from which to select the courses he/she wants
to do).
2.6 Besides electives and streams for specialized areas, streams and electives from domain
areas (e.g. health, life sciences, finance, economics, E-Governance, sciences, etc.) may also
be offered. A student may also be able to take CSE courses.

Note: Specialization in the UG programs will not be shown on the transcript. However, the
students may be guided about the courses belonging to a certain area during the course
counseling session conducted at the beginning of the semester. Guidance on specialization
may also be put up on the website for information of the students.
2.7 There will also be a set of Social Sciences and Humanities (SSH) courses offered.
2.8 List of courses, and further information about the courses is available on the website:
https://www.iiitd.ac.in/academics/courses

3

Requirements for Graduation
For a B.Tech. (EVE) degree, a student must satisfy all the following requirements:

1.

Earn a total of 156 (inclusive of 2 credits each of SG and CW credits) credits
(equivalent to 39 full courses of 4 credits).

2.

Successfully complete all the core courses. Specifically, the core courses for the
BTech EVE program (i.e., Physics of Semiconductor Devices, Digital VLSI Design,
Analog CMOS Design, and VLSI Design Flow) must be completed.

3.

Complete at least 12 credits of Social Science and Humanities (SSH) Courses.

4.

Do 2 credits of Community Work and Self Growth each. These are pass/fail credits,
which are required to be completed, and will count for fulfilling the credit
requirements.

5.

A student may take Online Courses. No more than 8 of these credits can count towards
satisfying the credit requirements of the degree.

6.

A student must do at least 16 credits (4 full courses) of EVE elective courses. The
EVE elective courses are the courses which have course codes starting with EVE.
B.Tech. Project /Independent Project/Independent Study/Undergraduate Research will
not count towards this requirement. These 16 credits should come from 3xx or above
level courses. AAC may approve some other relevant courses (e.g. from Maths, CSE,
Computational Biology, etc.) to be counted as EVE courses for this purpose. Online
courses of the respective discipline (i.e., online courses with EVE course code), if
done in the last four semesters will count towards this requirement.

7.

A B.Tech. Project (BTP) is optional. A student opting for BTP may take a total of 8 to
12 credits of BTP spread over a minimum 2 semesters. A student not completing BTP
credits will have to forgo the partial BTP credits earned earlier done and those will not
be counted towards the credit requirement of 156 credits.

8.

A student may take “Independent Project” or “Independent Study” or “Undergraduate
Research” courses for 1, 2, or 4 credits. No more than 8 of these credits can count
towards satisfying the credit requirements of the degree. Only students with

satisfactory CGPA (at least 7.5) or with a strong interest in some area (the faculty
advisor to determine this) and CGPA of at least 7.0 can take these courses.
9.

4

A student can take maximum 2, 2xx level courses in 3rd and 4th year. The 2xx level
core courses listed in Semester 5 or later will not count towards this clause.

Honors Program
The B.Tech. (EVE) program has the Honors option, requirements for which are the same as
specified in the regulations for the B.Tech. program. Namely;
1. The student must earn an additional 12 discipline credits from in-class courses (i.e.
must complete at least 168 credits)
2. The student’s program must include a B.Tech. Project
3. At graduation time, the student must have a CGPA of 8.0 or more

5

List of EVE elective courses
The following existing ECE courses will be given EVE course codes also:
1. Solid State Devices: ECE318
2. Introduction to Nanoelectronics: ECE517
3. Photonics: Fundamentals and Applications: ECE545
4. Quantum Materials and Devices: ECE524
5. Integrated Circuit Fabrication: ECE522
6. Quantum Mechanics: ECE525
7. Memory Design and Testing: ECE611
8. Mixed Signal Design: ECE412
9. RF Circuit Design: ECE321
10. Linear Systems Theory: ECE570
11. Advanced Embedded Logic Design: ECE573
12. Computer Architecture: ECE511
13. Digital Signal Processing: ECE351
14. Digital Hardware Design: 510
15. System on Chip Design and Test: ECE516
16. Applied Optimization methods for machine learning: ECE5aom
In future, more courses will be given EVE course code (as they are approved) and they will
be considered as EVE elective courses.

