Travel/Financial Assistance for M.Tech (Research) CSE
The Guidelines for the students of IIIT-D are as follows:1. The travel assistance can be utilized by M.Tech (Research) students for the following
Academic activities:a. Travel within India: For attending a Conference and presenting a paper based on
his/her project/research work or attending a short-term or training programme
essential for carrying out the proposed research programme.
b. Travel outside India: For attending a Core A/A* Conference and presenting a
paper based on his/her project/research work outside India.
c. Student Activity: Participating in a student activity such as a paper presentation,
model competition, or poster presentation that is not based on any mandatory
academic assignment.
d. Travel for Academic Work: For academic work, such as using an instrument or
reference to a library in a different institution or for collecting data as a part of
his/her research work.
e. Equipment: Purchase of a laptop/desktop to facilitate research work.
2. International Travel (One-Time): International travel support of INR 1,00,000/(maximum) and National Travel support of INR 50,000/- (maximum) in the
second year will be allowed to M.Tech. (Research) students during his/her entire study
programme, which will include all operating expenses, including travel, living, registration
fees and other related costs. All other rules and/or norms for travel will be applicable as per
institute guidelines. This will be limited to one author for the time being. Further, this will
be in addition to any support that may be given by a Centre or a faculty member or any
external support and is not tied to support that faculty of PhD students may get for the
paper if they are co-authors.
3. Contingency: The support of INR 10,000/- (maximum) per annum will be allowed
to M.Tech (Research) students during his/her entire study programme. A contingency
amount can be availed for any of the activities mentioned above and can be combined with
individual budget heads mentioned below.
4. Laptop/Desktop: One-time support up to INR 50,000/- (maximum) is provided
towards the purchase of a laptop/desktop. After graduation, this equipment may be
purchased by the student at the depreciated book value.
5. AICTE Scholarship: The M.Tech research will get a monthly stipend of INR 12400/from the AICTE.
6. Additional Scholarship: In addition to the AICTE scholarship, there is a monthly
scholarship of INR 8600/-, which is provided to the M.Tech Research student. This
scholarship is eligible only for the students who are doing TAship.
7. Reduction of Fee Cost: The fee for the program will be as notified by the institute for
the academic year.
8. Conditions: None of the financial support (in whole or partly) mentioned above can be
drawn out as a fellowship/fellowship-top-up.

NB: To avail of the facility of the above-mentioned assistance, the students must apply on the
prescribed form available URL: http://ilitd.ac.in/academics/resources website. The filled-in forms
must be submitted to the Academic Section with the recommendations from their supervisor(s)
and Head of the department (HoD) at least one month prior to availing of the assistance.
This is issued with the approval of competent authority,

